June 3, 2024 Board Meeting
Lake Washington Board of Directors
  A. Regular Board Meeting - 7:00 p.m.
Procedural: 1. Welcome
  B. Opening Items
  1. Convene, Roll Call
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m.
  Board Members present:
Leah Choi, Lisa Guthrie, Eric Laliberte, Lindsey Yocum
Director Stuart was excused.
  Student Representatives present:
Shivani Sama, Taran Srinivasan
  2. Land Acknowledgement
Vice President Laliberte shared the Lake Washington School District Board of Directors’ Land Acknowledgement.
  3. Approve Agenda
  RESOLUTION: Approve the agenda as presented.
Motion by Eric Laliberte, second by Lindsey Yocum.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
  C. Recognitions
1. Statement of Recognition for Juneteenth
Director Guthrie read the district’s statement of recognition for Juneteenth: 
Juneteenth holds significant historical, cultural and societal importance in the United States. It commemorates the emancipation of the last Confederate community of enslaved African Americans and symbolizes the ongoing struggle for freedom, equality and justice. Juneteenth serves as a reminder of the unyielding resilience, strength and ingenuity of the Black community, while also highlighting the need to continue working towards a society free from racial oppression. Lake Washington School District celebrates Juneteenth as a formal holiday to honor the ancestors of the past, celebrate the change agents of the present, while laying the foundation for a more inclusive and equitable future. 
  2. PTSA Scholarships Awards
Each year, the Lake Washington PTSA Council awards a variety of scholarships to graduating seniors and to LWSD certificated staff. Funding for these scholarships is provided by the generosity of the 44 local PTSAs in the district, the continued support and success of Council’s Annual Scholarship Auction, and donations from the greater community. The student scholarships recognize achievement and community service and assist recipients with covering the cost of their post-secondary education, while the staff scholarships help defray the costs of continuing education for certificated LWSD staff. 
The recipients of the 2024 PTSA Scholarships were:  
 Merit Scholarships: 
Maanit Goel (EHS Learning Community) 
Janaki Venkatesh (EHS Learning Community) 
Macklin Gray (JHS Learning Community) 
Caroline Yim (JHS Learning Community) 
Logan Chu (LWHS Learning Community) 
Joanna “Joey” Lymberis (LWHS Learning Community) 
Sophia Kim (RHS Learning Community) 
Nishant Malpani (RHS Learning Community) 
LWEA/Teeley Scholarship: Kayleigh Flaks (JHS-Cambridge) 
Voc/Tech/2-year Scholarship: Alberto Mbengi (JHS)  
Turnaround Scholarship: Rosalinda Hernandez Martinez (JHS) 
Perseverance Scholarships: 
Afeefa Asif (JHS) 
Anna Comstock (LWHS) 
Sydney Starnes (EHS) 
At-Large Council Scholarships: 
Samantha Chan (EHS-Running Start) 
Cole McIntire (RHS) 
Christine Vu (RHS) 
Staff Scholarships: 
Young Kim (Lake Washington High School) 
Katie DiLorenzo (Einstein Elementary) 
Congratulations to all 2024 award recipients. 
  3. Recognition of Senior Student Representatives
The Board recognized the outgoing Student Representatives to the Board of Directors: 
  Shivani Sama - Tesla STEM High School, Class of 2024, Student Rep: 2022-2024 
Taran Srinivasan - International Community School, Class of 2024, Student Rep: 2023-2024 
  D. Reorganization of the Board
  1. Election of Board President
  RESOLUTION:  Director Yocum nominated Director Choi for the position of President of the LWSD Board of Directors.
Moves the nomination for the position as President of the Lake Washington Board of Directors.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Leah Choi, Lisa Guthrie, Eric Laliberte, Lindsey Yocum
  2. Election of Board Vice President Nomination: Director Guthrie
  RESOLUTION:  Director Laliberte nominated Director Guthrie for the position of Vice President of the LWSD Board of Directors.
Moves the nomination for the position as Vice President of the Lake Washington Board of Directors.
Motion by Eric Laliberte
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Leah Choi, Lisa Guthrie, Eric Laliberte, Lindsey Yocum
  3. Election of Legislative Representative
  RESOLUTION:  Director Guthrie nominated Director Yocum for the position of Legislative Representative.
Moves the nomination for the position of Legislative Representative of the Lake Washington Board of Directors.
Motion by Lisa Guthrie
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Leah Choi, Lisa Guthrie, Eric Laliberte, Lindsey Yocum
  E. Audience Participation
  Name Role Topic Method of comment
Elizabeth Orswell LWSD Student Building Excellence Levy 2375 In Person
Heather Colomb LWSD Parent, Guardian or Family Member Keller Community In Person
Tia El Zein LWSD Student Lack of Counseling Staff at Juanita HS In Person
Afnan Dallasheh LWSD Parent, Guardian or Family Member, LWSD Resident The path forward and recognition for schools  In Person
  F. Consent Agenda
1. Minutes - May 20, 2024 Study Session
RESOLUTION: Approve the minutes as presented.
  2. Minutes - May 20, 2024 Board Meeting
RESOLUTION: Approve the minutes as presented.
  3. Human Resources Report
RESOLUTION: Approve the Human Resources Report, as presented.
  4. Conditional Certificate, Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction (OSPI), 2023-24
Resolution: Approve the conditional certificate/s, as presented.
  5. Donations
RESOLUTION: Accept the donations as presented.
  6. Surplus Of Equipment, Books And Vehicles, Resolution No. 2376
RESOLUTION: Adopt Resolution No. 2376 declaring the equipment and materials listed on the attached page as surplus to the needs of the district and authorizing the superintendent to proceed with the distribution, transfer, sale, or disposal of items listed.
  7. 24-25 Board Annual Workplan Adoption
RESOLUTION: Approve the consent agenda as presented and/or amended.
  8. Approval of Consent Agenda
  RESOLUTION: Approve the consent agenda as presented.
Motion by Eric Laliberte, second by Lindsey Yocum.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Leah Choi, Lisa Guthrie, Eric Laliberte, Lindsey Yocum
  G. Non-Consent Agenda
1. Building Excellence 2024 Construction Levy
Lake Washington School District’s Building Excellence Plan is a multi-phase plan to provide permanent classrooms for students, address aging facilities and reduce reliance on portables. Voters approved Phase I of the Building Excellence Plan in February 2022. Phase II will focus on aging facilities with a goal of rebuilding/enlarging the four remaining schools that have not received upgrades or rebuilds since the start of the 1998 modernization program.  The board considered recommendations and received information and feedback in five study sessions between March 2023 and March 2024. The Facility Advisory Committee provided feedback on recommendations for future facility planning to accommodate our changing enrollment landscape and continue to provide learning environments that promote excellence for students.  An overview of the Construction Levy recommendation was presented to the board of directors at their May 20, 2024, meeting.
The Board unanimously approved Resolution No. 2375, Construction Levy, authorizing a six-year levy to be placed on the November 5, 2024, ballot.  
RESOLUTION: Adopts Resolution No. 2375, Construction Levy
Motion by Lisa Guthrie, second by Eric Laliberte.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Leah Choi, Lisa Guthrie, Eric Laliberte, Lindsey Yocum

2. Strategic Plan Update
Deputy Superintendent Scott Beebe provided a brief update on the status of the Strategic Plan and the next steps.
  3. Inclusionary Practices Program Update
Deputy Superintendent Matt Gillingham provided an update on LWSD Inclusionary Practices. 
  H. Superintendent Report
1. Superintendent Report
Dr. Holmen shared information about retirements that were in the Board packet. Specifically, he called out Colleen McAlerney, who has served the district for many years as a Speech and Language Pathologist.  Dr. Holmen also congratulated our 2024 graduates. We have 1,992 seniors this year. He shared the schedule of graduation that goes through the summer of 2024. Each graduation ceremony has its own flair and personality. He reminded the Board of the graduation requirements that all students must meet – including achieving 24 credits and completing a High School & Beyond Plan. Dr. Holmen shared information about attending the Eastside Native American Education Program (ENAEP) graduation on Sunday evening. Students from Lake Washington, Northshore and Bellevue school districts were in attendance. 
I. Public and Community Affairs
1. Update on Public and Community Affairs
Vice President Guthrie shared that their WSSDA permanent position was approved to go in front of the full WSSDA group this fall.
  J. Closing Items
1. School Visits
President Choi shared that members of the Board visited both Juanita High School and Sandburg Elementary last week. Director Yocum shared information about the ENAEP Graduation ceremony on Sunday.  
President Choi also shared that one of our Redmond High School students, Mahee Chandrasekhar, was the Washington state winner of the Doodle for Google contest. President Choi encouraged people to vote for her submission – the deadline is June 4, 2024. 
  2. Committee Updates
Director Yocum shared a brief update on the Inclusion Advisory Committee work. She shared that Deputy Superintendent Gillingham provided a good update on the work of that committee in his Inclusion Program Update earlier in the evening.
  3. Review of Future Board Business
The next board meeting will be held on June 24, 2024
  4. Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 9:27 p.m.
  K. Official Minutes
1. Official Minutes - June 03, 2024 Board Meeting
Minutes from the June 3, 2024 Board Meeting will be approved at the June 27, 2024 Board Meeting.
Minutes generated by Teresa Harding on Tuesday, June 4, 2024
 