  February 5, 2024 Board Meeting
Lake Washington Board of Directors
  A. Regular Board Meeting - 7:00 p.m.
1. Welcome
Called to order at 7:01 p.m.
  B. Opening Items
1. Convene, Roll Call
The meeting was called to order at 7:01 p.m.
  Members present:
Leah Choi, Lisa Guthrie, Eric Laliberte, Mark Stuart, Lindsey Yocum
  Student Representative present: 
Shivani Sama
  2. Land Acknowledgement
Student Representative Shivani Sama shared the Lake Washington School District Board of Directors’ Land Acknowledgement.
  3. Approve Agenda
RESOLUTION: Approve the agenda as presented.
Motion by Eric Laliberte, second by Lisa Guthrie.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
  C. Audience Participation
No speakers appeared to provide public comment this evening.
  D. Consent Agenda
1. Minutes - January 22, 2024 Study Session
RESOLUTION: Approve the minutes as presented.
  2. Minutes - January 22, 2024 Board Meeting
RESOLUTION: Approve the minutes as presented.
  3. Human Resources Report
RESOLUTION: Approve the Human Resources Report, as presented.
  4. Out-Of-Endorsement Assignment Waiver
RESOLUTION:  Approve the out-of-endorsement assignments for the teachers listed for the 2023-24 school year, as presented.
  5. Conditional Certificate, Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction (OSPI), 2023-24
RESOLUTION:  Approve conditional certificates, as presented.
  6. Donations
RESOLUTION: Accept the donations as presented.
  7. Emergency Procurement, Resolution No. 2363
RESOLUTION: Adopt Resolution 2363 declaring an emergency and waive the statutory requirements related to competitive bidding.
  8. School Improvement Plans
RESOLUTION: Approves the 2023-2024 School Improvement Plans (SIP) for schools as presented.
  9. Approval of Consent Agenda
  RESOLUTION: Approve the consent agenda as presented.
Motion by Eric Laliberte, second by Lindsey Yocum
Aye: Leah Choi, Lisa Guthrie, Eric Laliberte, Mark Stuart, Lindsey Yocum
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
  E. Non-Consent Agenda
  1. Resolution for Censure, Resolution No. 2364
The Board approved Resolution 2364 This is a resolution for censure related to the Board's determination that during the course of his term Director Mark Stuart violated Board Policies and the established Code of Conduct, as specifically articulated in the Investigative report and that his behavior falls below the high ethical standards the Board expects from its Directors.
Director Mark Stuart made a motion to include a letter from his attorney in the public record. This motion died for lack of a second.
  RESOLUTION:  Approve Resolution No. 2364, as presented.
Motion by Lisa Guthrie, second by Lindsey Yocum.
Aye: Leah Choi, Lisa Guthrie, Eric Laliberte, Lindsey Yocum
Nay: Mark Stuart
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
  RESOLUTION:  Amend agenda to elect a new legislative representative.
Motion by Eric Laliberte, second by Lindsey Yocum.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
  President Choi opened the floor to nominations for legislative representative.
Lindsey Yocum nominated Lisa Guthrie.
No further nominations.
  RESOLUTION:  Elect Director Guthrie as legislative representative.
Aye: Lisa Guthrie, Lindsey Yocum, Mark Stuart, Eric Laliberte, Leah Cho
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
  2. Data, Research & Accountability Program Update
Tim Kreiger, Director of Data, Research and Accountability, provided a department/program update on the various responsibilities and outcomes of the Data, Research and Accountability Department.

3. Approval of Monitoring Report Results 2 - Academic Content Knowledge and Skills
The Board’s Governance Policies call for the monitoring of each policy based on the annual calendar in GC-6, Annual Work Plan. Operational Expectations Policy, Results-2, Academic Content Knowledge and Skills, was presented by Dr. Jen Rose, Associate Superintendent of Teaching & Learning Services. The Board approved the monitoring report for Results 2- Academic Content Knowledge and Skills, with exceptions noted.
  RESOLUTION:  Approve the monitoring report for R-2 Academic Content Knowledge and Skill, as presented, showing reasonable progress with noted exceptions.
Motion by Eric Laliberte, second by Mark Stuart.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
  F. Superintendent Report
This agenda item was covered later in the meeting, after Committee Updates.
  G. Public and Community Affairs
  1. Update on Public and Community Affairs
Associate Superintendent Barbara Posthumus provided an update on several legislative bills that LWSD has been following. Today is the fiscal committee cut-off. This is a short session. Five bills we've been tracking did not move on. We've provided testimony 15 times this session. She provided a quick update on all the bills we've been tracking this session.
President Choi provided an update on attending the National School Board Officials conference in Washington, D.C. last week. She met with representatives from Washington state and advocated for specific measures.
Directors Yocum, Guthrie and Student Representative Shivani Sama attended the state day on the hill event through Washington State School Directors Association (WSSDA), Director Guthrie provided a brief update on this visit.
  H. Closing Items
1. Committee Updates
Director Laliberte shared an update on the work of the Facilities Advisory Committee. This group spent time reviewing communications strategies to ensure our community understands facility needs across the district. Director Guthrie shared an update on the Community Connectors group last week. Risk & Safety Services has begun collecting data on our Community Resource Officers beyond what is required by the state. They also discussed the definition of "safety" and how that connects to the feeling of belonging.
  2. Superintendent Report
Dr. Holmen shared an update on the inaugural season of girls' flag football. All four comprehensive high schools had teams. 150 student athletes participated in a five-week season. The LWSD Championship Tournament was held on February 3. Uniforms were donated by the Seattle Seahawks. Congratulations to the Lake Washington High School team on winning the LWSD District Championship!
  3. School Visits
Members of the School Board will visit Kamiakin Middle School and Redmond Elementary on Tuesday, February 6, 2024. 
  4. Review of Future Board Business
The next regular board meeting is on Monday March 4, 2024, at the LWSD Resource Center (16250 NE 74th Street, Redmond. WA 98052)
  5. Adjournment
The board meeting adjourned 9:37 p.m.
RESOLUTION: Adjourn the board meeting.
Motion by Eric Laliberte, second by Lindsey Yocum.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
  I. Official Minutes
1. Official Minutes - February 5, 2024 Board Meeting
The February 5, 2024 Board Meeting Minutes are scheduled for approval at the March 4, 2024 board meeting.
    Minutes generated by Teresa Harding on Tuesday, February 6, 2024
 