
 [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] I'm going to call us to order. Please stand for the pledge of allegiance. We need to adopt the meeting agenda. Is there a motion to approve the meeting agenda? So move. Thank you, Meredith, is there a second? Thank you, Diana, all those in favour? Great. So we have a couple of presentations. However, we are missing one of our people. Oh great. Okay, Reagan's walking in. I should we shouldn't have been so quick. I know. With that. Dr. Irish, do you want to kick off the recognition? All right. Well, here's our opportunity to wish our two seniors a happy happy moving on to the next chapter of your life and congratulate you for an amazing leadership role that you played in the school district over the last two years and actually all four years though you've been at the school. So I'm going to start off with a few words and then I'd love to turn it over to everybody else. It's just say a few things but it's been an absolute pleasure working with both of you. I've really enjoyed our monthly meetings. You two have really shepherd both of our seniors in the focus groups as in the research that you did this year. Last year we did something a little bit different and then this year we tried something new but each year that we've been doing this. Second year in a row you've been able to add a lot more input in making that more realistic and relevant to the work that we're doing and you created a legacy as the first seniors to implement this really focused leadership. I've been working with students and getting information and bringing that back to the principles and your two colleagues over here are going to be able to take that legacy and grow it and build it for years to come. It's just been also such a great pleasure getting a notebook of you being able to go to Wazda hang out. It's to see you. You both have really bright futures ahead and I'm really really proud of both of you very very very much. Thank you for all of the feedback that you've given. I'll say a little something and then we have some gifts for you so I'll bring them over while others are talking but I think the thing I want to focus on is well certainly appreciate all the time. I don't think most people know the time commitment that you both have put in. Attending needs in the business meetings, study sessions and you can go to site visits all of the time you spend on your projects. It's just like a lot of extra volunteer time that you put in to provide a service to students that you represent so I just appreciate that. But I think my favorite memory is the first year we went to Wazda in Spokane and how quickly you both made connections with all the other student board reps from around the state. Just to see them gathered around you all around you and how you represent it. And I also I appreciate it. I also want to name that we were fortunate enough to be able to recognize Reagan on Monday night with this week. This week with Chris Morgan later ship award and I have the privilege of being in the district in Wazda working in the district. Chris Morgan was super in ten and I respect him so much. He was just an amazing leader and so it's just a huge honor to be able to give the leadership award and so we already recognize Reagan but I on exit forgot to certificate in my house. So I gave Reagan an empty folder and said I'll bring it on Monday or on Thursday. So anyway I have certificate for you and the scholarship that goes along with it. Reagan but thank you both for your service. I'm going to pass it off to other folks to talk a little bringing over your gifts that we have for you. So also congratulations on graduating. I also wanted to point out that one of our, probably our largest partner that we work with in the community school foundation last week also recognized both of you. Reagan awarded two scholarships on the ASF scholarship night and purely coincidental because I have nothing to do with the selection process. But Wesley was the recipient of my family scholarship the 9/11 of the moral scholarship. So that was pretty cool to see both of you guys recognize that way. Thank you for all the work that you both put in and best wishes to each of you. Yeah and I just want to say I've only known you guys for six months but the amount of personal growth that I've noticed in each of you is tremendous. And I could see that going forward through this summer and next year when you go on to college. Continuing to grow as people and your amount of that you give back to the community stick with that because that's who you guys are and it really shines and we really appreciate it. Okay I want to say any embarrassing stories and I won't cry. Not one not one but I will brag a little bit even though so I think I got to spend more time with you than a lot of people. A lot of adults and I felt very lucky. This year as we figured out a new project to work on together but I will never forget Reagan when you and Brady were surrounded by students and every single person it was wanted to know how these students at Anacordus were getting feedback from their peers and you have always been such a leader Reagan and to have representation from Capzany. So I made sure to keep us on track and I think I've said this to you already but we will do our best to make you proud going forward. I look forward to hearing about because I know you're going to loop us in what you do next and Wesley. You have just bought an energy and awareness and also you made sure that when we weren't doing something right you told us about it and I appreciated you so much when we were talking to the principals and you'd say no wait I disagree I want to talk about this I have questions and both of those things advocating for people. And ask questions. Keep doing it. We'll keep trying to make you proud. Thank you so much for the last two years. And so that I don't repeat what everyone has said. I think one of my favorite things is watching all of the other things that the two of you do on campus and with your friends and in the community and how you still find time to be here and bring that voice to this place. So it's almost like you go out and gather all of the things and then come back to us and it's been really fun to you know. I'm always surprised. I'm like oh there's a pole vaulting. I'm like Wesley is doing five sports and you know you're in all the leadership stuff and it's just been really fun to watch you engage and then to bring that voice to us. I appreciate it and it's been fun. Congratulations. And I know Dr. Clifford and the students want to say thanks to you. I'll keep this really quick and brief. I really appreciate it. I spent a little bit more time with you last year with your project and then saw you through this year. The things that I wanted to recognize one is that you were also awarded last year the Warsaw Award for a student leadership for your work on the board and that was truly a reflection of the work that you've done and what you brought to the board. And I just don't want to spend too much time but your growth and your leadership and just how you have continued to show up day and day out every time. And this was already said but the two of you both of you were really intentional about the work that you have done in the board. It's time to be it's time. But you both really did a good job of making sure even in your projects last year of thinking of both and trying to think about how do we really bring the best of both worlds to each of the schools and making sure that both of the schools were represented. And that is that was truly important and a legacy that you will lead. I just wanted to say that I really appreciate you both being super welcoming to when I came in part way through the year and so I feel like I was totally set up for success and I wasn't nervous or worried about anything because I knew that both of you would lead the way for me. So I really appreciate you guys and I'll really miss you next year. I just wanted to say that Regan is actually the whole reason I'm even here right now because we were at track doing the two of you to come up in front of the board because it is going to get a picture. [laughter] so Regan and Wesley your time is officially done. You're welcome to stay as long as you want in the audience. But we don't ask you to. You can also take your name tag. Take your name plate. You're name plates. Yep. And you definitely don't have to stay since you probably both had a really late night. Maybe you didn't have a night last. Yeah, I hope you're seeing your night was a blast. enjoy your summers. And we can't wait to hear maybe when you're home for a weekend or the holidays. [applause] And Dr. Irish is going to do the oath of office for our two new student board reps that we're welcoming on to the board tonight. We are very honored and excited to welcome to new. student board representatives to the Annacord school district. So I'm going to start let's see who I have first here. I'm going to start with KC. [applause] So KC you're going to come right up here and we're going to face the audience here. And then I'm going to give you a script so you can follow along. So you don't always just have to listen. You can listen and read. All right. So I'm going to ask you to hold your right hand. Hold up your right hand. Okay. And you're going to repeat after me. Okay. All right. I KC night. Do here by solemnly swear. Do here by solemnly swear. Then I will support the constitution of the United States. And the constitution of the state of Washington. And the constitution of the state of Washington. And we'll faithfully discharge the duties of student school board representative of Annacord school district number 103. Will faithfully discharge the duties of student school board representatives of Annacord school district number 103. Nice. Some arenas. That's a big mouthful isn't it? Schedule county state of Washington to the best of my ability. Schedule county state of Washington to the best of my ability. Perfect. I do now swear you in. You are an official state board representative. And you can come over and sit here. And then we will have you sign. All right. Is that friend come on up. Okay, perfect. I, Zeffron, Erhart. Do here by solemnly swear. Do here by solemnly swear, then I will support the Constitution of the United States, that I will support the Constitution of the United States, and the Constitution of the State of Washington, and the Constitution of the State of Washington, and will faithfully discharge the duties of student school board representative of an according to school district committee. For 103, and will faithfully discharge the duties of student board representative of an according to school district number 103, schedule county state of Washington to the best of my ability. All right, and you two have two amazing mentors here who will help support you. Super exciting. Awesome, thank you. You all can just kind of get the label in this evening. Do anything else other than lesson, but we're super excited to have you both on the school board for the next two years, and just really look forward to working with you, and getting to know both of you a little bit better throughout the two years that you're going to be with us. I just want to recognize Dr. Dewey, he's in the audience. I know, but Dr. Dewey, so she did an incredible job really giving you both references, and has a huge belief in the two of you, and really appreciate Dr. Dewey for being a part of this process of being the principal of the high school, and being an amazing principal of the high school. So she is in your corner as well. And I'll just echo that. Thank you for your time during a really busy week. We won't do this again in June, but really appreciate you spending an afternoon with us and helping to select these two individuals. Thank you. Great. So we are going to move in, do we have public comments this evening? So we're going to move in to superintendent and assistant superintendent comments. So I first want to recognize we have four wonderful employees in our school district to our retiring. They couldn't be with us this evening, but I want to recognize them publicly for the great service that they provided to our students to this community and to this school district. First I want to recognize Victor Garcia. He has served 24 years of dedicated service to the school district to the science teacher. He actually was not working this year, but took a leave for this school year, but is officially retiring at the end of this year and an amazing science teacher and we wish him well. Tony, who is 32 years of dedicated service to the end of the school district as counselor at island view elementary, and he is throwing a big party tomorrow night. Excited to with a band I hear so but congratulations to Tony to 32 years of service. It's incredible. And then Julia Adams Jordinger, nine years of dedicated service to the end of the school district as a school psychologist at Mount Eri Elementary, Fidago Elementary, and Anacore High School, and we wish her the best. And then David Rodriguez, who has been served 16 years of dedicated service to the end of the school district as a network support analyst for the district. And he is done incredible work behind the scenes helping navigate make sure networks are working and wish him well as well. I also want to take a moment and recognize Heather, and then I have more comments for that. So I do want to take a time and have everybody recognize her and then I will continue talking. But Heather, can you come on up for a moment? Yes, they're years. Good. All right. So Heather is moving on to the Edmund school district where I used to work and so excited that she's going to be a part of that community, which is also as a special place in my heart. And I know you're going to be well. And I am going to miss you so much as an individual but the system is going to miss you as well. The amount of work you have done to build systems in the teaching and learning department, the relationships that you have built with teachers, with principals, with parahedicators, the consistent thing that I hear as I walk around the schools is the immense amount of that they get from you. And the trust that they have in you from day one. Not only are you an expert in understanding teaching and learning and principalship, and understanding the technical aspects of this job, you come in with such grace and ability to make change happen. Complex change happen through relationship, through gradual steps or through foreseven if needed because of the charm. And the care that you bring to the job, you can do it. Yes. And it's leaving a huge hole in our organization to have you gone. And this is not something that we would have ever wanted. And I wish that you were able to stay with us for a long, more time. Your time hasn't, isn't over. But for all the reasons we know, we have to say goodbye. But I also know you're going to make great things happen. And Edmunds and beyond. You have an amazing future ahead of you. Whether it be principal or central office leader or superintendent or wherever you want to go. You really have a lot of talent. And you've inspired me and I'm going to miss you so much. I would like to see if anybody else would have any other comments to say about Heather. Right. Gosh. I just want to point out that I appreciate you never making me feel stupid. And I know that sounds silly. But you as smart as you are. And as fabulous as you are, your job, you always found ways to make sure that I understand what you were talking about and never made me feel less for not knowing all of the language and the language. It was a really safe and comfortable place to be with you. Thank you. Just go down the line. Okay. I'm from the day you started. My friends who are teachers were just so excited to learn from you. They immediately trusted you. And I think it's equally important that our teachers are excited to learn and continue. That's part of the process. I can't thank you enough for showing us what that looks like. I look forward to seeing what you do and we'll miss you very much. Thank you for that. I want to say that I have a very personal insight and connection into the job you were stepping into. And I just want to publicly acknowledge how challenging and complex the job is to be a director of teaching and learning in a district of the size of an accord is where you have literally no staff. You have no support folks helping you. And the fact that you jumped in and it probably was nothing like the district where you came from where there was a whole department. So I just I just appreciate how much you just dove right in and just was willing to do anything to do the job. And then I just want to echo what Diana said because I have a lot of connections with teachers around the district. And this is kind of a district where people stick around. And so to come in new to a district like this is challenging and I never heard a single negative thing about you. I feel like what everybody has said the teachers immediately trusted you immediately was like thank goodness we have Heather. So that just speaks to your not just your knowledge and skill but how how you carry yourself and how you present yourself to people and how you came in and immediately attended building relationships and and just being here to do what people needed. So thank you and I also said that we were able to keep you in our district. Yeah I just want to reiterate some of the comments to that your inspiration to all of us and the grace which you carry yourself is also inspiring in itself. And I've only known you for a few months but already missed you. But we know you're going to do great things in it. So good luck there. Before I echo everybody else's comments because I think we've all had a similar and very positive experience. I just want to say thank you because it's been fun in between breaks to talk about 90s rock and roll with you and trade tastes in pellets on instructors. Anyhow but at the expense of being redundant but I think it's important because these things we all observed and appreciated was such an effective and clear communicator. I'm here at this point breaking down one of the jargon for those of us who aren't steeped in the industry but are responsible for decisions was huge. And thank you for that. The kindness the grace and the patience which kind of goes with the first part of explaining things to us like we're five. But doing it with grace and kindness. That's a rare skill and you've got it a hundred times over. And then to the other point I've got a lot of friends in the district who are teachers and every one of them I've ever talked to when you've come up. They immediately just expressed this deep respect for you as a person and a professional. And while I'm concerned about our district going forward I'm very excited for what Edmund is getting. Oh you're going to see my softer side but I'm not going to let you. I might not be able to speak. I think I'll say my comments later. I think I'll say my comments later. I wrote my comments down because I knew I would be nervous and I'm gonna try to not cry. Thank you for this opportunity to address the board. Dr. Irish Dr. Clifford and my fellow cabinet members while you're in the back. First of the board, it has been a pleasure to work with you over the past two years. I greatly appreciate your investment in and support of the students, staff and community of anacordus. You have set a tremendous example of how a dedicated group of individuals can make a difference in the lives of so many people. Thank you for bringing me into an accordus and into a role that has always been a dream of mine. From the start, you have been a thoughtful and patient mentor as I have navigated a new position and district. Answering all of my questions even the silly ones. Being a thought partner through challenging situations and always reminding me that everything is figure outable are just a few examples of why I'm so grateful. to you. Thank you for all you have done for me. Justin, Justin, thank you for entrusting me with such a pivotal role in the school district. I can remember our first meeting on that hot June day in your office like it was yesterday. We immediately connected about all things teaching and learning and I have always enjoyed our brainstorm sessions and next steps and crazy ideas. You've had to make some really difficult decisions during your tenure here and you've always kept student learning at the heart of everything. Thank you for providing vision, strategy, collaboration and of all compassion for the work to the work. To my fellow cabinet members. I'll miss our con rotary and collaboration in support of students and also one another. It has been such a joy to learn from each of you. You are all truly brilliant at your jobs and anacordus is very lucky to have you. As I prepare to embark on my next chapter I want to express my deep gratitude to the opportunity to serve as director of teaching and learning. Working alongside such a dedicated group of teachers and leaders has been a true privilege. Together we have made significant strides in enhancing educational experiences for our students and I'm immensely proud of what we have accomplished. I will always cherish the memories and the impact that we've made together and I'm wishing the district continued success and all the best in its future endeavors. Thank you. You're welcome. I feel like we would be remiss not to mention. I want to add an unhappy note but also I just want to say that the budget situation at the state has put us in has forced us to make really tough decisions. I think that we should just acknowledge that and say that we're not to mention it is not anything that any of us would want. It's not what's best for our district. Thank you. I do want to echo that. This is not what's best for our district. It was really a hard decision. We're thinking about the least impacts to student learning. To cut the director of teaching and learning. I hope that we're able to take some action and have some clear actions to engage our legislators in this open session that's coming in this next year. I do have a few more updates. We have to say the district next week. It's a little odd that it's so that it's after school and we're going to have a press release that's going to come out here tomorrow. I believe. That's the way it worked with the schedule this year. It's on June 20th and it's hosted by the end of course school's foundation and the chamber. And so I really hope to see you and everyone else who wants to be there. If you haven't registered you can register online and it is a luncheon. And then I also want to say that we're going to have a press release that's going to come out here tomorrow I believe. We are looking to enhance our transparency and accessibility at these meetings. We are excited to announce the launch of our new YouTube channel. It's going forward. The school board meetings will be broadcast live and archive for easy access. It will eliminate the licensing expenses for Zoom which will result in substantial annual savings for the school district. We will be recorded for any time final action is taken or formal public testimonies accepted. The requirement is that it's audio recorded but we're going one step further to make it streamlined on video as well and archived. So our new channel will extend beyond our local boundaries. So parents, students and community members worldwide can now participate in our discussions and stay informed. And parents, students and community members who cannot attend our meetings can now do so at distance. They can also will be close captioning so that people who are deaf and hard of hearing can have access. And it can also be translated into over 80 languages to provide accessibility. So those of you who are interested will need to subscribe to and it's easy to subscribe and you can do that online and also be on Facebook as well. You can see it and subscribe. So I want to thank Nikki. Thank you for her hard work in making this happen. She was the genius behind all of it and then working with Rich and with James to make it happen. So thank you Rich and James as well. I also want to share it in a couple of weeks ago with you all and announcement will go out later next week about our free meal program to include all students at site will qualify for free meals. And the reason why those two schools are selected for free meals is due to the free and reduced percentage point. Island view is just very close. If there was just a few more applications that were submitted they would have also had free meals as well. So we're going to work really hard next year to make sure that Nikki says there were seven students away from being able to qualify for free meals for everyone. So, but I also want to note that just because I'm out in your info I'll go getting it next year. It's a very, very, they just barely passed threshold. So if parents don't sign up again next year it could be that those free meals will be taken away. So our goal is to communicate this as much as possible and to help make those forms be as accessible as possible and encourage everybody to sign up because it could benefit all of our elementary schools. I also want to share that we have a sandbox program to ensure new nutritious summer meals for students. So the sandbox program will provide $120 per eligible child to purchase nutritious food over the course of summer. And so students who are already receiving free and reduced lunch or a part of that program will automatically be enrolled in this program. Which is another benefit for families filling out the free and reduced lunch forms. This is not just about lunch or breakfast. There are also multiple other benefits that our families and students receive if they qualify for this service including reduced fees or sometimes free services within the school district. I want to also share that a couple weeks ago we had my final super advisory council meeting for the year and has a part of that we were talking about what does the structure look like and how do we continue to improve that structure to engage both benefit the district and benefit our community. So one thing that what's incredible about the super advisor council is a group of committed community members and families who are there to be my advisors and they help poke holes in my thinking. We share information about our strategic plan. Our key initiatives. We look at data. And we also talk about the key messages that we might have as a district but also hear from the community about what are you hearing on the street and there might be misinformation on the street and how do we get ahead of that information. And so we decided to continue our meetings next year or quarterly meetings. And some of the adjustments we're going to make to the format and structure to make it more relevant for both the district and for our community is each each meeting I'll send a survey out to the community who are part of this group to help give input several weeks ahead of time about what they're interested in. So if there is a topic I might need I might bring a cabinet member or I might pull together some research and bring that to them. We also discuss that we don't really want it to be the district always up talking that needs to be an engagement and there is more of a round table discussion that's very informal. So I'll prepare information that I feel they might need or that they want based on that survey. And then send out those materials in advance if needed. But I think also what's more important is that we intentionally invite them to all other meetings. They are advisory council. There are my number one group of community members and parents who are providing me the feedback that I need. So I'm going to make sure that when we send out invites for anything like the tech form that happened a couple of weeks ago that they are aware of everything so that they can come to everything and help spread the word. And be our advocates or allies as well as our constructive critical thinkers about the work that we're doing. So I'm going to invite them to our job with Justin to our one-on-one meetings or have anyone on one meetings with me at any time or phone calls to invite them to specific community forums, advisory sessions, work groups. And also I talk to them about the difference between our board meetings and study sessions. And invite them to come to our study sessions where they can learn, listen and learn about the work that we're doing. And many of them are interested in that. So we will be more intentional about sending them the agenda of our study sessions so that they can be a part of that. So I'm really excited, they are excited about this tweak in the format as we move forward. And then other than that, I want to end by just welcoming our two student board representatives, Casey and Zephrin. And I want to start by welcoming the two of you. And I can't wait to get to know you even better. the next year and next two years actually so welcome and I'm glad to hear. I wanted to give a quick update on the Whitney RFP process so and a formal press release we entered it on doing it today but I wanted us to make sure that everybody was communicating with on all parties so we're going to send it out tomorrow. We are proud to announce that we have two early learning members for our Whitney RFP process. I want to share that it was a very rigorous process with a very specific criteria and a very structured review and scoring process and both of our partners scored very high and their respective bids for the sections that they were awarded. We are excited to establish a partnership with Boys and Girls Club of Scanja County for Section A which is the part of the RFP to lease space at Whitney to provide before and after school and daycare services to children, students and families in the California community and facility that is desperately needing fulfilled and we're looking forward to that the work ahead without that partnership. We're also very pleased to continue with Inkers Away and expand those services for Section B of the RFP for the blended preschool program which currently and will continue to support over 90% of full inclusive programming for students with disabilities in the developmental preschool program while also serving students in preschool in our community and they are going to be adding a toddler program so we're excited about having these three groups. Our developmental preschool, the Inkers Away blended program and then the Boys and Girls Club working together and we look forward to actually doing some collaborative work as a collective group in the Whitney area and I just wanted to say that I'm really impressed with the applications that both of these providers submitted. They had really clear visions. They had a level of detail that really explained how they wanted to provide services. They had supporting data to support and allow us to see how their vision can come to life and what their past experience has been to support continued success and experiences. And it was clearly aligned to the district strategic goals which made them contenders so we are really looking forward to fulfilling the RFP and deepening this partnership and meeting community needs. I would do want to say that we're officially going to have the contracts in place at the August 8th board meeting and that the Boys and Girls Club will be able to move in at the mid to end of August. They do have to do some licensing to be able to actually provide services so they are intending on providing those services as soon as possible but they may need a couple. There might be a delay in implementing services when we first get into the into Whitney. But they will go as fast as they can and it's fast as a licensing process response to them. So we're very much looking forward to that. So there we have been our students our staff and as our whole entire district and our community has been running like racing to the end and not losing a minute. So I just wanted to say that I'm we've done and I'm so proud and it's been amazing to be a part of and not being able to be at everything but all of the end of the year events both fun and then actual very critical work as people have shared. Heather has worked until the end of the year. So I'm really excited to see the work that's coming ahead for that in our blended program and how we're getting to know how to really use it both from a digital perspective and the blended paper pencil perspective. We had our tech forum and the surveys were sent out so those are due on Monday at the end of the day for both staff and for families. And we're going to take all of the information from the tech forum, the surveys and identify some first quick wins that would be aligned to our current work and our strategic plan and and have those be part of our next steps of our work in technology and schools and that will be a first step of many in the process of continuing to evolve and our work around technology and instructional practices. And I think that might be it. So thanks everybody. Thank you. We have board comments. I'll let you go first. I have something. KC's effort and welcome. He has a big shoes to fill but I trust us that you're here you're going to do as a welcome. I'm excited for both of you. Click on community partnerships. I know you mentioned a lot about food and services. Another one I just want to call out and recognize publicly as the work that's about to begin with food to go. Who typically during the school year brings bags of groceries to the schools on Thursdays. This is their off week as a prepared transition into delivering those grocery bags to homes throughout the community over the summer. And that is a critical. Critical need that's filled for a lot of families and they're a fantastic partner with us. And if there's any way you can either support them through rolling up your elbows and helping pack grocery bags or financially whatever support anybody may feel compelled to provide them know that it's going to our students and it's fantastic. And I want to say thank you for organizing the tech forum. I think that that was a very important first step and I'm excited to see the work that you're going to undertake. Thank you. I just want to quickly publicly acknowledge. I've been like so many events the past couple of weeks from award ceremonies athletic events concerts today I went to play at the middle school just all the work that the staff has put in. June is the most probably busiest and stressful month for educators. They're just trying to get their students to the end of the school year and wrap up grades and all the final projects and tests and everything and on top of that they have provided an amazing experience for students to end the school year with all the events and wonderful things that happen so just want to acknowledge the time and effort that the school leaders the teachers all the support staff put in to make sure that students are recognized and they have opportunities to perform and shine at the end of the school year I just think it's it's it's been an amazing couple of weeks celebrating students and all their accomplishments and just all of the work that educators put in to make that happen isn't it doesn't go unnoticed. yeah I think I think the library thinks I don't work there anymore this month because I always had something and I said I just lived at Bradniac for a week not as much as probably some of you but and I saw both of our new student board reps at different things so I know even though I also know you were fantastic candidates because I got to be there that you're going to be representing a wide variety of students and you're out there doing it so look forward to that work with you so many good yeah so many wonderful things that I could say but it's been nice to be a part of it I wanted to add just one more thing that I had not been able to say about Heather to bring us back but also I have never seen someone work until the last second to the level that you have with absolutely no break that you didn't take a moment I mean we all kind of did this when we found out this is what we would have to do months ago and you acknowledge that and then you just carried on maybe more so making sure that we were as prepared as we could be and I saw that and so impressed by it I'm so grateful I don't think that got said specifically I've never seen somebody do that with the kind of grace and boys that you have so thank you all right thank you so we're going to move on now to student comments anything else you would like to say it looks like we have sorry do we have building reports okay it's not on my thing front of me here so last building reports of the school year which is super exciting I can't wait to hear so we're going to start with Gabby and and CTA okay I'm running on my phone but is this on I can't tell okay so the main goals and miss browers improvement plan is to increase attendance and dive deeper to understanding the lack of attendance that follows with kids failing portions of the classes another one of his power goals is to add more internships built in with each program which is something that I think is so amazing and then extend a lot of those programs to adding a second year option so kids that have done the first year can move on and get more internships and job opportunities in the second year of that class and then we're also really excited to see that there's going to be offering a PM PM session after like the regular PM session for kids that may be like work jobs all day and then get their school in a night which is really awesome to see and then the evidence that miss brower has collected to support that is many students have gotten amazing jobs right out of NCTA from the relationships that they have built in NCTA which is something that's so cool to see a ton of kids got accepted into the nursing program at the University of Washington state which is just an amazing program and then the NCTA helps them get for the long in that process so that's kind of the information she's collected from there and then miss brower and miss her adults and have socialized with the student body and multiple different ways I can attest that because I go to that school and every morning I just see those two waving everybody and greeting them always smile on their face and then miss brower also to those great checks and then she'll like check their attendance and make sure students are where they need to be and another part of NCTA is for kids that need to get some credits filled and learning in a different way so she'll really keep up with that and make sure that those students are getting their credits filled which is pretty awesome and then how the improvement plan connects to the pillars of the strategic plan she follows that very closely she's always finding a way to get in students involved in the work life if that's just like throwing them in internships recommending them different jobs to work at she can always make sure that students are getting done what they need to do and providing them with opportunities every single day. When miss brower asked me or when I asked miss brower if there's anything she wanted me to add she told me I could just add whatever I want because I go to that school and I just wanted to say that miss brower is one of the most hardworking people that I know and she will do anything for students and she was always on the look for new opportunities like every single day she's always checking something now it's awesome and then I would definitely recommend NCTA to anybody that exactly if that program is there and they know what they want to do in life so yeah thank you page your first building report before I start I would also like to say I went to NCTA last year totally recommend it was really great learning experience for me so okay so I did Mount Eury so the main goal is to miss your sports school improvement plan more continuing the panorama survey so they had very promising results and were ranked the highest out of all the elementary schools and then scores have gone up since the last panorama survey was given in the fall. He wants to continue the fourth grade ELA in math intervention it's the largest class and needed the most attention specifically this year and then continuing SEL and ruler based intervention and then all teachers provided a good pace and curriculum to all students so continuing that and to next year. Mr. Swartz connected this data through SBA scores so when I talked to him last month third grade had just finished and 72% passed so that was a really great result and then there were growth in scores through MTSS which was really great and an interventionless specialist keep track of growth in progress as well he is socialized these outcomes by staff meetings every month he has a leadership team that also meets once a month and then they do overuse at PD's and then the next staff meeting they're having is on June 17th so that's just a couple of days and then the school improvement plan connects to the pillars of the strategic plan by students are provided with both social and emotional health they have access to grade level support there's a huge partnership with the PTSA and community members to really make sure everyone is included so they recently had a garden cleanup and then a few weeks ago Mr. Swartz participated in the dunk tank so he really want to be at that and then there's nothing else he'd like to share about the school. Thank you. Any other student comments this evening? You just have to slide it. Is it? I just wanted to say that I appreciate everybody welcoming me to the student board. I didn't want to interrupt anybody's speeches to say that so I want to say it now. Thank you. I also just wanted to add on to what's in front said yes it's been such a welcoming community that I've just walked into and raised my hand into so thank you for making such a welcoming experience so far and I'm excited to work with you guys for the next two years that's scary. I'm really excited to work with you all and work with Gabby and Paige over the next year. I want to welcome you guys on to. I'm really happy to have you guys here. Thank you all and we hope you all have a really great last day of school tomorrow. One more day. We are going to then move on to a finance update Mike is ready. We dropped a little bit more than I guess you can say anticipated towards the end of the year because last year we held on to them really well. So I guess it's a little more normal but I was hoping a little bit better but still I think we did pretty good compared to projections. I think a point out in person enrollment ended 66.34 FTE higher than what I projected and even 27.8 FTE higher than the previous year. So that's good. I'm not going to change my enrollment projections for next year and I think for a while I've been saying that I think we're going to end around 2542.9 to total FTE for the year and it ended up being 2540.22 and like I said we left a few more kids towards the end of the year but not huge so I'm pleased with enrollment any questions on the enrollment report. I just want to say Mike you've consistently impressed me year after year if your enrollment projections and it is a science and it's a skill and it means a lot to me is a superintendent to know that I work with such a highly skilled finance director so thank you. I want to agree and also name that if you're going to end a little bit off of what you project it's better to be higher than lower so just appreciate your skill and also appreciate you being conservative. So that we end in a positive way and not a negative way so I appreciate that. Thank you. We will nervous about kindergarten next year that's the toughest one to project some a little nervous about that one but we'll see how it goes. We have faith in you. I'll move on to the finance report. April is always a good month for us just to be clear so I'm up in like everything you know even from my projections so I really see a little more taxes than we anticipated than a typical I'll say April we're up in local receipts the state revenue we knew would be up because enrollment's up and that also affects some of those grants and even our transfers because we spent more money in the technology area that we were able to reimburse ourselves for. That's all you know doing fine. Still up in our payroll costs I think that you know that continues to the rest of the year as we know. And of course that is also related though to the fact that we have more students and therefore we're paying more overload things like that so. And currently we have a fund balance above a million dollars for the first time in a while so that's. I'm still you know it's going to be turned right around and get tight at the end of this month. I don't know how tight yet may have tomorrow a little bit we'll see but we'll pop right back out of it in July. So Mike I just I know that this is good news but I also want to just paint the bumper sticker logo that we're nowhere near where we need to be with our fund balance so I just want to it one of my very public that just because we're a little bit up doesn't mean that we've met our goals. Right. Right. Also just want to reiterate that May and June we know from history like dips back down. So we're still projected to be where we planned to be. In May we get 5% of our portion in June we get 11 to 6% of our portion and then I get like 12 and a half percent in July. I'm going to get more in July than we did in May and June. So huge difference. Thank you questions about this one. This is related to the Whitney RFP but as they relate to one another and I think you answers for this answer just but I can't recall how long will it take that project with as we understand it now to become budget neutral. I expect at some point in the on ramping. There'll still be expenses for the district to absorb if that's true and if so how long before we expected to become neutral. I will share based on the conversations during the selection process. I'm hopeful that you're two. They will have a fully robust program and then that will increase the amount that we get. So but I'm thinking you're two will get closer to a neutral and your three will be in a better place. In that year one expenses that will be in that expense for us they look similar to what we're currently spending there are they for you and you're going to have a better place for you. It is going to cover utility cost and but they are renting and using more space. Okay. Yeah. And then tying the budget and enrollment reports the other member correctly. This is a good thing. We spend more per student generally speaking. We spend more per student than we get from the state. Is that accurate? Yes. Okay. That's a good thing for our students. Well because we're spending our local student. So when we get the enrollment goes up. First blush that looks like a good thing because our enrollment goes up and there's revenue that comes to each of those numbers. But because we spend more than we get that also means that we're pulling more and more out of the levy. Is there a point where is there like an elbow or you come around the corner and it stops becoming attacks on the levy and you actually end up ahead or is this a continuous process with each new enrollment. We take more from the levy. Is that question makes sense? I think so I think I'll all if if our enrollment grows say next year grows and I'm not projecting it grows I project the state's flat. Well let's say it grows by enough where we would might need to hire another teacher because I'm going to get money from the state that says hey you're generating another teacher. So we need to maybe hire another teacher to take care of the enrollment growth. That teacher costs more than what we collect in the levy than what the state gives us. So therefore we have to pay more out of our levy for that teacher. On the other hand our levy amount that we can collect goes up because it's capped by the per pupil amount that we can collect from levy but that's a leg. So that'll be the year after we get the kids that will start to have that kind of impact where we can collect a little more from that. So the first year it's going to cost us more. The first year we start to when we have growth if that occurs it will cost us more than what we have available. Yeah so yes it's problematic. Thank you. Can you talk about the audit now? Yeah I have an extra report this this month. We did complete our audit and the way audit reports go it's a very clean audit I would say because what you don't want is an audit finding. That's the worst one to get it's not a finding. The second one you don't want to get really but you always get them typically every year is called management letter items. That's where they officially write it down and say if you don't fix these things it's going to become an audit finding. We had none of those. So that's what you call a really clean audit. If you have nothing in either of those categories it's very common to get management letter items. Then below that is called exit items and the exit items are things they just share with me. Really on a piece of paper though. It's written and those are things like I think I mentioned in here my schedule of expenditure of financial assistance. It's a report that I do and provide to the state and I swear I shared it with Jose and he reviewed it and I thought we put our initials on it but I couldn't find the actual document to prove it. Therefore I didn't have the documentation needed so I think most of these just simply had something on the lines of and the other things I had but really that's a level that the things I reported to you there are normally something even here about but I just thought transparent wise I'd rather you see those things that we hear. The one thing I'd like to point out though you know we did have that audit finding from the 2122 school year for the emergency connectivity fund and just earlier this week we received their certified letter letting us know that we don't owe the money. But the reason we didn't owe the money is because we were in compliance with their rules and regulations as we had argued that we were so even though we got an out of finding and we argued that finding that we felt we were in compliance the auditor is felt we weren't the FCC who was the governing body for this said you were in compliance and it says that in their letter so I feel really pleased I have to give some credit to Robert Paul who did the things that needed to be done at the time we got it and documented it well and which king knew exactly where it was how to get it and pull it out and give it to me and then I of course presented to the auditors in such a way to say no we met it all and they felt we didn't so it's doing it right the first time and it was done right the first time. I was pleased with the outcome of that. It was a lot of people don't understand what the finance structure does other than just finance but Mike is not only does finance but the amount of every year we have to do audits and the audits involve multiple interviews pulling of data looking at archives and he will spend weeks at a time doing nothing but audit interviews and that happens every year. I want to talk about the dollars the amount of work you have on your plate let alone managing transportation food and nutritional services and the maintenance of our district and I just appreciate the details to provide and the work that's doing an acknowledge the hard work you're doing thank you. Thank you for the audits that we had how thankful the audits were auditors were to you Mike for all of the time you put in all of your detail and just so complimentary of your work in the district and it's not just by accident that we had such a clean audit it's because of your diligence and hard work and just really appreciate that and also one of just I would be remiss if I didn't shout out was the because they really mobilized around the FCC. And there was a big effort for Mazda to try to clarify and really go to bat for all the districts that received that funding and so just thankful that our membership and was to pay off a little bit in that regard that we were just in an I run some calls about that and there was a lot of problem solving going on behind the scenes to make those make sure that every all the districts that did what they were supposed to do didn't get hit with an audit finding so I don't know how the others fared yet. Hopefully it was similar because some of them though had different problems multiple issues we had one and I really felt that we complied with the one but other people have other issues that I don't know how theirs is going to turn out. The complexities of covid. Yeah. Thank you so much I appreciate your your hard work. Great so we're going to move into committee updates I'm not sure we have any but Jack is there a WIA update and a legislative update and great thank you it's wrapping up the school year so new business we have the superintendent evaluation. I will speak to it and then if anybody wants to if we. I don't think we have questions of our own evaluation that we wrote but just want to commend Dr. Irish and the whole cabinet team for an incredible job this year working towards the goals that the board has put forth on the strategic plan and the annual operating plan. Despite continued obstacles and challenges. Budget being I would say the primary one but there's others as as the school year goes along. I mean focused on the goals that we've set forth like at the beginning of the school year and just all of the dedicated body of work I feel like every time we had a pillar report every single month it was more was done than what we even said should be done and we know that you're all working under like it meant constraints staff time budget and just really appreciate the work and Dr. Irish leadership. I think you're looking forward to reading the cabinet team. Keeping everybody focused on the work managing complex capacity issues and just really keeping I think it was set already but keeping your eye on singularly focused on student learning and making that the focus we just really appreciate it and just appreciate your work and we're really I know we're not voting on the contract yet but it's coming up in consent agenda but really thrilled to roll your contract say that we hope you're around for three more years at least anybody else want to see anything about the evaluation try to be quick because I know we're almost done but we've talked about the wonderful staff that you have and the difficult decisions you've been having to make and all the incredible things we've watched students do over the last year last week that is the testament to your leadership thank you this reflects that but thank you for all your work comments or shall I just go ahead and say can I? I just want to make sure that we know so that if anyone is curious if we're just seeing this on new business tonight and voting on it that this is a year in the making and as we evaluate with each pillar and we work with Justin and his team to talk about where there's opportunities and we're celebrating successes and then we've been working together as a board one-on-one over the last week so we had an executive session tonight so there's a lot of work that goes just into the evaluation so I want to make sure that the community knows and the staff know that this is something that we all take very seriously and that we the staff and the board spend a lot of time making sure that we're staying the course and so thank you for your work as you know that we appreciate you and also just how much work it is to get through the evaluation process and so we're I feel really good about the work that we did here to Super Nintendo evaluation report. Thank you very much. Thank you Diana all those in favor. Awesome so we have consent agenda I just want to publicly acknowledge I talked about the Super Internet contract but want to publicly acknowledge that there is also an addendum to the contract that's included that states that the Super Internet for next year will take no raise to his pay and just want to also name that we recognize that that is true for Dr Clifford and for Mike as well that the three leaders have agreed to not take any raise in pay for the for the next clear which we know doesn't at all line up or match the amount of workload that's going to be added to your plates with the reduced staff at the district office so it's in some ways it's a bit contradictory because you're going to be doing more for basically less so we appreciate you three making that sacrifice and taking the first step for next year's budget already and we know that the continued ongoing budget challenges and agreeing to do that and we it's again not what's best for our district and not what we would like to see happen or have to do so we just want to acknowledge that. Any other comments around consent agenda? Great then I will take a motion to approve the consent agenda so moved thank you Meredith is there a second second thank you Diana all those in favor. Great and with that our board calendar commences in August almost at October. Yes I fast forwarded way too far. We will be on summer recess in July but we will have a business meeting and we will have a budget hearing on August 8th and then adoption of the budget for next clear on August 22nd and then really looking forward to an extended amount of time for our board to have our retreat. At the ESD down the road on August 23rd and with that I'm going to adjourn us for the year.
