Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
12/5/2024 06:30 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
Start time: 06:30 PM

2. Approval of Agenda
Start time: 06:35 PM

3. Good News
Start time: 06:35 PM
Each school in the district held a veterans day assembly to celebrate Veterans Day in their own way. The meaningful events
highlighted veterans within the school community and connected students to veterans in a powerful way.
The Lynden High School FFA Marketing Plan Team earned a gold placing at the FFA Convention. The team worked with a local
company to develop a marketing plan for their business and submitted that plan to the national judges in September. At the
national convention held in Indianapolis, the team presented the plan to a panel of judges and received a gold rating- good
enough for a top-eight finish at nationals. The FFA team includes Faith Baldwin, Jace Stanley, and Hannah Durbin.
All three elementary schools held the Final Mile of their marathon club program on November 22nd at the Lynden High School
track, capping off a complete marathon run over the course of the fall. The Final Mile event brought together students from all
three elementary schools to complete the last mile of the marathon and celebrate together.
Congratulations to all fall sports athletes on another successful season. Junior Sloan Dickson captured 2nd place at the 2A
State Cross Country meet this past weekend. The football team made it to the state quarterfinals and ended their season with
a hard loss against Archbishop Murphy. The girls soccer team won the Northwest Conference Title while volleyball, boys cross
country, and girls swim also had outstanding seasons.
Lynden Middle School hosted a free community viewing of "Screenagers- Growing Up in the Digital Age." About 15 community
members attended the screening of this award-winning film which discusses how screen time impacts the lives of kids and
offers insights on how parents and educators can work with kids to help them achieve a healthy amount of screen time.
Eighth grade students from Lynden Middle School's leadership class walk to Vossbeck Elementary twice per week to visit their
buddies in second grade. The students read books and make connections throughout the trimester. This is a highlight of the
week for both sets of students!
Elementary schools and Lynden Academy held their fall parent-teacher conferences just before the Thanksgiving holiday. This
was a great opportunity to connect with families regarding their student's progress, celebrate achievements,
and strengthen the partnership between families and educators.
The Special Education Department hosted an event on November 21st with the ARC of Whatcom County, the Developmental
Disabilities Administration (DDA), and the Division of Vocational Rehabilitation (DVR). This event connected families with key
community resources for post-high school supports. Other Whatcom County school districts also participated.
The Fisher Elementary 5th Grade Student Council recently led a winter clothing drive that demonstrated the true spirit of
community service. Focused on helping others rather than fostering competition, the drive aimed to provide winter clothing to
Times noted on agenda items are for guidance only.

families that Family Community Services supports. The Fisher community responded with extraordinary generosity, coming
together to donate coats, hats, gloves, and scarves. Volunteers constructed an enormous box to collect the donations, but
even that couldn't contain the overwhelming generosity of contributions.
Lynden Middle School band & choir students performed in front of a packed house during their fall choir concert held on
November 21st. Hundreds of families enjoyed the concert led by Choral Director, Ginger White and Band Director, Fred
Winkler. Congratulations to all students for a wonderful performance!

4. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Start time: 06:40 PM
Meeting Minutes- 11.07.24
Meeting Minutes- 11.22.24

5. Annual Organizational Meeting
Start time: 06:45 PM
Annual Organizational Meeting

6. Consent Agenda

(Action)

Start time: 07:00 PM
AP/Payroll- 11.15.24
AP/Payroll- 11.27.24
Personnel Recommendations- 12.05.24
Donation- Cooper Northwest

7. Information from the audience
Start time: 07:05 PM
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided. Individuals may address the Board on agenda items as well as
non-agenda items. Tonight's agenda items that may result in action being taken by the board include:
Approval of school improvement plans
Resolution #12-24- Transfer funds from general fund & capital project fund to debt service fund
Resolution #13-24- General fund transfer to capital projects fund
Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak. Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes. It is
important for community members to feel welcome and safe during the meeting. Board members listen and learn from public
comment, but generally will not respond. Topics raised during public comment may receive a follow up from a board member or the
superintendent at a later date as appropriate. The school board does not take public comments on issues related to personnel or
individually named staff members. The presiding officer of the board reserves the right to terminate an individual's statement when
the allotted time has passed and may interrupt a speaker to require the same standard of civility as the board imposes on itself as
specified in Board Policy 1400.

8. Reports
Start time: 07:20 PM

a. Superintendent
b. Teaching and Learning
School Improvement Plan Presentation- Lynden Middle School

c. Finance and Operations
Finance Report- 12.05.24

9. Board Committee Reports
Start time: 08:20 PM
Times noted on agenda items are for guidance only.

Board Committee Reports- 12.05.24

10. Action Items

(Action)

Start time: 08:30 PM
Approval of 24/25 School Improvement Plans
Resolutions #12-24 and #13-24- Transfer of Funds

11. Policy
Start time: 08:45 PM

a. First Readings
Policy 3205- Harassment of Students Prohibited
Policy 3420- Anaphylaxis Prevention & Response
Policy 5005- Employment & Volunteers
Policy 5011- Sex Discrimination and Sex-Based Harassment of District Staff Prohibited
Policy 6600- Transportation

12. Information from Board Directors
Start time: 09:15 PM
Information from Board Directors

13. Executive Session
Start time: 09:30 PM
Executive Session- 12.05.24

14. Adjourn Meeting

Times noted on agenda items are for guidance only.

