Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes February 23, 2021
Generated by Kelly Warner
Members present: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Melinda Cool, Jessie Deardorff, Lee
Anne Riddle, Cuong Nguyen
Meeting called to order at 7:01 PM
1. CONVENE
Information: 1.01 Call to Order
Mr. McLaurin called the meeting to order at 7:01 PM and welcomed online audience
members.
Present from the administration were Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn, Assistant
Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive Director of
Teaching & Learning Dr. Faye Britt, and Executive Director of Teaching & Learning
Kellie Larrabee
Information: 1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
At this time, the Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
Action: 2.01 Adopt Agenda
Dr. Kevin Erickson moved to adopt the meeting agenda.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Melinda Cool, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff
3. PUBLIC COMMENT [GC-3.3]
Information: 3.01 Receive Public Comment
Mr. McLaurin explained the format of Zoom in receiving public comment. He noted that
we did not receive any public comment prior to tonight’s meeting.
4. FOCUS ON STUDENTS
Information: 4.01 Update on Reopening School
Mr. McLaurin said that a lot has happened in this arena since the Board last met on
January 26th, with approximately 80% of our students in grades 6 through 12 returning to
part-time in-person learning on February 1st. Mr. McLaurin called on Dr. Quinn to
provide an update.
Dr. Quinn said that 80% of students have chosen to come back to in person learning. 40%
of the students are coming on Monday/Tuesday and 40% on Thursday/Friday. Dr. Quinn
commented that students are doing an amazing job following the safety protocols and
although there has been positive cases in the schools, we have not had any transmission

within the schools due to our rigorous contact tracing, wearing masks, handwashing,
distancing and cleaning protocols.
Dr. Quinn said that we have received very good news this week from our neighbors in
Lummi Nation. They will be providing vaccinations for all of the Ferndale School
District staff at a clinic this coming Saturday. She noted that the state has phases for who
is eligible for vaccines and in that phasing the majority of our staff would receive
vaccines in a couple of months; however, the sovereign nation receives their own
vaccines and develop their own phases. The Lummi Nation has prioritized the Ferndale
School District as a group to receive those vaccines.
Dr. Quinn said that we had an opportunity to sign up to be considered for an
asymptomatic surveillance-testing program at no cost out of the Children’s Hospital. We
have been selected as one of the pilot schools. This is voluntary for students but it
encourages our secondary students to have weekly noninvasive COVID test.
She said our elementary schools continue to do great with their hybrid model. She said
we have received a number of requests from other school districts to see how we are
doing things in both the elementary and secondary levels. We have already been visited
by Arlington and Sedro-Woolley School districts. Lake Stevens will be coming as well.
The Executive Directors of Teaching and Learning Dr. Faye Britt and Kellie Larrabee
commented on the amazing work our staff is doing. They answered questions from the
Board.
Information: 4.02 Review the Monitoring Report for Results Policy R-2.3 Academic
Achievement: Science
Mr. McLaurin reminded audience members that the Board has approximately 25
governance policies that we monitor on a bi-annual basis. He said about half of the
policies focus on our operational expectations for the way the District is run by Dr. Quinn
and her team. The other half focus on the results the Board expects the District to achieve
with its students. He reminded everyone that when the pandemic struck, we put our
policy work on pause for several months. We resumed it this past December, so now we
are back into a rhythm where we are receiving a new monitoring report each month;
reviewing that policy over the course of the month; discussing it and proposing any
modifications at the next public meeting; and taking action on whether to approve it the
following month.
The Board discussed the monitoring report for Results Policy R-2.3 Academic
Achievement: Science.
Information: 4.03 Review Elementary Language Art Recommended Curriculum Adoptions for
2021 School Year and Beyond
Mr. McLaurin reminded the Board that we are required to approve all major curriculum
adoptions. He said following tonight’s presentation, we will have a month to review the

materials and raise any questions we might have before we vote on whether to approve
the review committee’s recommended adoption at our March meeting.
Executive Director of Teaching & Learning Ms. Kellie Larrabee introduced the staff
members that will be presenting their recommendations this evening: 1st grade teacher
Tessa Briggs, 2nd grade teacher Tammy Alejandre, 3rd grade teacher Lindsay McDougal,
and Principal of Cascadia Kelly Parsons.
Ms. Larrabee and her team provided a slideshow presentation on the English Language
Arts curriculum recommendation, which is attached to BoardDocs. The presentation
provided information on their recommendation, which is the American Reading
Company, as well as how the curriculum was reviewed and the process for gathering
input from the community.
5. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
Information: 5.01 Report on Capital Projects Bond
Assistant Superintendent of Business and Support Services Mr. Deebach noted that today
was a big day. We had 25 contractors submit bids for 40% of the work. He said we came
in 5% under budget, which amounts to about 2 million dollars under budget. He said we
are excited in terms of what happened today but we have a long way to go. Next month
we will have more bids coming in and tomorrow another big bid component on structural
concrete and steel. The Zoom link for the bid opening will be posted on the website
tomorrow.
Information: 5.02 Discussion about Sponsorships and Community Donations
Mr. McLaurin said the members of the Oversight Committee asked us to once again
consider the idea of soliciting donations and/or community sponsorships for certain
features of the new Ferndale High School.
Mr. McLaurin said the Bond Oversight Committee would like to have a general
discussion regarding this topic. He said there will be a sub group that is getting together
next week to go over this topic. BOC co-chair Anya Milton has some experience in this
area. They have also asked CSG and Cornerstone to provide information on what other
districts have done.
Dr. Quinn added that there is a policy in place that would allow this to happen. She said
the conversation with CSG and Cornerstone will help them figure out what types of
things people are donating. Mr. McLaurin said scoreboards and CTE components are a
possibility.
Dr. Kevin Erickson said he would like to join the meeting with the subgroup, which will
be held on Wednesday, March 3.
Ms. Riddle asked if there are conversations about families being able to buy a brick or
plaque. Dr. Quinn said they are getting to a place where those are becoming more real
conversations. Ms. Cool mentioned it would be nice to have a place online where the
community members can purchase the bricks.

Mr. McLaurin will report to the Board on this topic next month.
Information: 5.03 Receive the Monitoring Report for OE-3 Relationship with the Community
Mr. McLaurin said the Board has established a set of Operational Expectations policies to
let Dr. Quinn and her team know how we expect the District to be run. The Board
regularly monitors how well our policies are being implemented. He said to do so, we ask
the Superintendent to provide us with Monitoring Reports on each of our Operational
Expectations Policies according to a pre-arranged schedule.
Dr. Quinn presented OE-3 Relationship with the Community to the Board. She noted that
a hard copy will be delivered to the Board members to review. Mr. McLaurin noted we
will be discussing this item at the March 30 School Board Meeting.
6. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
Action: 6.01 Adopt Resolution No. 3-2021 In Observance of School Retirees' Appreciation
Week
Melinda Cool moved to Adopt Resolution No. 3-2021 In Observance of School Retirees'
Appreciation Week
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Melinda Cool, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff
Information: 6.02 Discussion About Resuming In-Person Meetings
Mr. McLaurin reminded the Board that the Governor has recently lifted the prohibition
on in-person public meetings. He said we need to decide whether we want to start
meeting in person beginning in March. If we choose to move in that direction, we need to
consider logistics related to recording and broadcasting our meetings; setting up for inperson audience members, including screening them upon entering the room; and
determining the best meeting space. He said if we decided to resume in-person meetings,
we also need to determine what this means for the Bond Oversight Committee, which
would also like to meet in person.
Ms. Riddle said she does not see us being able to do everything by the March School
Board meeting. She said it is a great goal but we need to have time to figure out how we
are going to do it based on all the regulations.
The Board discussed how they would continue broadcasting the board meetings to the
public if they were held in-person.
Mr. Deebach noted we would have to figure out if we have the equipment needed to
broadcast the meetings.
Mr. McLaurin said it would be best to continue in this format until we have the proper
equipment to broadcast and asked that this item is added to the March meeting agenda.
Ms. Cool would like to know the capacity for the Vista library and FHS gymnasium so
we have an idea of how many people could attend the in-person meetings.

Information: 6.03 Set Study Session Dates for March through May 2021
The Board will be surveyed about their availability for a study session following
tonight’s meeting.
7. SHARING [GC-7.E.]
Information: 7.01 Student Board Members
Cuong shared information about the ThoughtExchange Student Voice meeting he
attended.
Information: 7.02 Elected Board Members
Ms. Riddle informed Cuong that there is student voice involved with legislative work that
he can participate in. She shared information about the National School Board
Association Equity Symposium she attended. She said it was fabulous and gave a brief
overview of the conference. Ms. Riddle also noted that there will be regional board
meetings coming up.
Ms. Cool shared that last year she went to the legislative conference in Olympia. She said
there was a list of 9 or 10 items that were the most important things to WSSDA that year
and what they would be stressing with the legislators. She said going to it this year and
seeing the difference of what COVID has done to some of those priorities was
interesting. Ms. Cool noted that graduation flexibility was still a topic in there but
COVID gave a new spin on it.
Dr. Erickson noted in all the legislative conferences he has gone to, this one was probably
the best one.
Information: 7.03 Superintendent
Dr. Quinn shared some information on the Equity and Education Student Voice webinar
she also attended with Cuong.
She also attended “Data on Purpose - How Not to Use Data like a Racist” which she
thought was really good. She said data can be used in many different ways and you need
to make your assumptions very clear.
Information: 7.04 Executive Administration
None
8. SUPERINTENDENT CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Action: 8.01 All administrative matters delegated to the superintendent that are required to be
approved by the Board will be acted upon by the Board via the consent agenda.
Melinda Cool moved to accept the superintendent consent agenda. Motion carried.
Action: 8.02 Authorize Vouchers
Authorized Voucher Transmittals:

GENERAL FUND
Vouchers 281688-281771, 281776-281848 & 281859 in the amount of $915,896.18.
GENERAL FUND PAYROLL
Warrants 477744-177762 dated January 29, 2021 in the amount of $1,460,980.66; and
electronic deposits in the amount of $2,879,961.59 for a total of $4,340,942.25.
CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND
Vouchers 281772 & 281849-281852 in the amount of $391,770.87.
A.S.B. FUND
Vouchers 281773-281775 & 281853-281857 in the amount of $3,814.32
PPT FUND
Voucher 281858 in the amount of $90.00
TRANSPORTATION/VEHICLE FUND
No February warrants
Action: 8.03 Declare Property Surplus
Declared equipment, materials and books surplus as indicated on the lists attached hereto
and made a part of the minutes.
Action: 8.04 Authorize the Development of Professional Plans to Achieve Endorsement
Approved plans for seven teachers who are teaching out of endorsement, as attached
hereto and made a part of the minutes
Action: 8.05 Authorize Cooperative Agreement Between the District and Northwest ESD 189 for
Whatcom County Detention Center Education Program
Authorized the cooperative agreement between the district and Northwest ESD 189 for
Whatcom County Detention Center Education Program, as attached hereto and made a
part of the minutes.
Action: 8.06 Accept Resignations and Retirements
Approved the resignations and retirements per the list attached hereto and made a part of
the minutes.
Action: 8.07 Authorize Leave of Absences
Approved the leave of absences, per the list attached hereto and made a part of the
minutes.
Action: 8.08 Approve Hiring of Personnel
Approved the hiring of personnel, per the list attached hereto and made a part of the
minutes.
Action: 8.09 Adopt Resolution No. 2-2021 Canceling Warrants

Adopted Resolution No. 2-2021 canceling General Fund warrant numbered 276187, as
attached hereto and made part of the minutes.
Action: 8.10 Authorize Personal Services and Supplemental Contracts
Approved Personal and Supplemental contracts for February 2021, per the list attached
hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action: 8.11 Accept January 2021 Fund Balance Financial Statements
Accepted the January 2021 Fund Balance Financial Statements, as attached hereto and
made part of the minutes.
9. BOARD CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Action: 9.01 The Board will use a consent agenda as a means to expedite the disposition of
routine matters and dispose of other items of business it chooses not to discuss.
Melinda Cool moved to accept the board’s consent agenda. Motion carried.
Action: 9.02 Approve Minutes
Approved minutes of January 26, 2021, Regular School Board meeting and February 9,
2021, Special School Board Meeting as attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action: 9.03 Review Board of Directors' Budget
Reviewed the year-to-date Board of Directors' Budget as of January 31, 2021, as attached
hereto and made part of the minutes.
Action: 9.04 Approve Monitoring Report for Operational Expectations Policy 8 (OE-8):
Communication with the Board
Approved Monitoring Report for Operational Expectations Policy 8 (OE-8):
Communication with the Board.
10. EXECUTIVE SESSION
Information: 10.01
At 9:21 p.m., the board convened into Executive Session for approximately 30 minutes to
discuss a personnel matter. No action was taken during or following the session.
11. ADJOURN
At 10:05 p.m., the Board reconvened into open session and immediately adjourned.

___________________________________
School Board President

______________________________
School Board Secretary

