Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Study Session Minutes April 13, 2021
Generated by Kelly Warner
Members present: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Melinda Cool, Lee Anne Riddle
Member absent: Jessie Deardorff, Cuong Nguyen, Avneet Pannu
Meeting called to order at 7:01 PM
1. CONVENE
1.01 Call to Order
Mr. McLaurin called the meeting to order at 7:01 PM and welcomed online audience
members.
Present from the administration were Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn, Assistant
Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive Director of
Teaching & Learning Dr. Faye Britt, Executive Director of Teaching & Learning Kellie
Larrabee, and Executive Director of Human Resources Mr. John Fairbairn.
1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
At this time, the Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
2.01 Adopt Agenda
Kevin Erickson moved to adopt the meeting agenda.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Lee Anne Riddle, Melinda Cool
3. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
3.01 Discussion about Developing the Budget for 2021-2022
Mr. McLaurin said this past year has been out of the ordinary. A number of the
challenges we have faced have had substantial budget implications -- from the failure of
the levy in February 2020 to the significant decrease in our enrollment in the fall of 2020
to the infusion of federal Elementary Secondary School Emergency Relief (ESSER)
funds. Mr. McLaurin said while we know next year’s budget is still in process, we
requested this session so the Board could learn more about where we are financially at
this moment in time and how the current state of the budget will impact preparations for
the 2021-2022 school year.
In our Operational Expectations Policy 5, which focuses on Financial Planning, we have
set out our expectations for the way Dr. Quinn and her team will manage our fiscal
resources to ensure (1) we are positioned to concentrate those resources on our collective
priorities, and (2) we are prepared to fund the District’s commitments into the foreseeable

future. He said tonight’s study session represents a mid-report check-in on how the
District is doing to meet the guidance we established in Policy OE-5.
Mr. Deebach shared a PowerPoint presentation for the 2021-2022 Budget Development,
which is posted on BoardDocs.
Mr. Deebach provided an overview of our current budget situation. He reminded the
Board the budget process begins with an enrollment forecast for the next school year
since that is the primary driver for the number of staff to employ. We plan to base next
year’s budget with an enrollment number of 4,345, which is decreased from where we
built this year’s budget. He said we do not know if the students that are fully remote this
year will come back in the fall.
Mr. McLaurin asked Mr. Deebach at what point do they true up the difference between
the enrollment numbers of 4415 (which the budget was based off of) and 4110 (which
was the actual enrollment for this year). Mr. Deebach replied in January. He said we are
paid September through December based on our budgeted number of 4415. When
January hits they recalibrate to the annual average FTE and make the adjustment for the
decrease in enrollment so our apportionment went down. Our January apportionment was
2 million dollars lower because of that adjustment. That was the amount they overpaid us
the first half of the year and recaptured that in the January apportionment payment so
now the rest of the year we are paid on the actual annual average FTE. He said this is
why we want to be accurate on our enrollment forecasts.
Mr. Deebach gave an overview of the midyear staffing additions that we had to hire back
after the reductions in staffing due to the levy failure and answered questions from the
Board.
Mr. Deebach explained our expenditures are down because of Covid and provided an
overview of the areas of Savings:
•
•
•
•
•

Extra-Curricular & Athletic (ECA) - $575k
Maintenance, Supplies & Operating Costs (MSOC) - $5m
Capital Outlay - $1m
Contractual Services - $1.5m
Salaries - $5.5m
o Admin FTE reductions
o Fewer subs cls & cer
o Less extra and overtime

Mr. Deebach said one place we anticipated spending a lot more money was technology.
He said we needed to come up with a lot of devices to cover the elementary level. Some
parents used their own devices, which saved money. He provided an overview on the
additional technology:
• 693 Chromebooks – we purchased
• 1,000 Windows 10 evolve 11 – OSPI Grant
• 163 iPads – OSPI Grant

•

Hotspots – we have issued 3000 (most funded through Whatcom county grant
funds and InvestEd)

Mr. Deebach provided an overview of the current fund balance:
• Higher than forecast and going to get bigger
• Levy $5m (2020 $5m & 2021 $0)
• Planned to use $6m in Fund Balance to offset no levy in 2021
Year to Date March Fund Balance Comparison
• Compared to last March:
o Revenue down $790k
o Expenditures down $5.4m
o FB: Assigned to Other Purposes $6.5m higher
Mr. Deebach said going into 2021-22, we are in a much better position than we were last
year. He also informed the Board that we will be in a position where we can hire staff
rather than lay staff off.
2021-22 Preliminary Financial Outlook
• Enrollment is forecast to be higher as students return to full-time in-person
learning
• Fund Balance is forecast to be higher due to a decrease in 20-21 expenditures
• We are forecasting a significant amount of one-time Elementary and Secondary
School Emergency Relief (ESSER) funding
Mr. Deebach explained policy OE-5 to audience members and how to align our
expenditures to the guiding principles.
Dr. Quinn read quotations from policies and past monitoring reports. She said the
Superintendent will develop and present to the Board a multi-year financial plan
that is related directly to the Board’s Results priorities and Operational Expectations
goals and that avoids long-term fiscal jeopardy to the District. This is the interpretation of
what the Board expects from the District.
Dr. Quinn gave an overview of the District’s strategic commitments and provided an
overview of planned additions to support the specific goals of the district improvement
plan.
2021-22 Planned Additions to Support the District Improvement Plan (DIP)
• Reduce model class size at the high school
• Communications Director
• Equity Diversity & Inclusive Director
• Counseling Staff
• Additional Assistant Principal at FHS

Mr. Deebach asked the Board if we agree that the Board determines what and that the
administration is responsible for how. The board members agreed.
Melinda Cool would like to know how the planned additions listed in the DIP benefits the
students. She would like more emphasis on the students.
Mr. Deebach gave of overview of the following topics.
Elementary Secondary School Emergency Relief (ESSER) Funds
• ESSER I - $760K used for lost revenue due to lower enrollment
• ESSER II - $2.8m not used yet (90% per legislative action)
• ESSER III - $7m not allocated yet (pending legislative action)
o Elementary ELA adoption
o Secondary Math adoption
o Teacher laptop refresh
o Facility improvements (i.e., HVAC upgrades)
Mr. Deebach asked the Board if we are all in agreement to use one-time ESSER funds for
one-time capacity building expenditures. The Board agreed.
Mr. McLaurin also wants it to be clear to the public about what the money cannot be used
for. He said there are some restrictions on using that money from the state.
Mr. Deebach reminded the Board that the election date is February 8, 2022, filing date is
December 10, 2021. We currently have a 2021-22 levy approved by the voters. We need
to run the February election so that we can have time to run it again if needed.
2023 Levy Plan
• $1.50 (current rate for 2021 & 2022 levies)
• $1.50 or $2.50 or…
• 2 or 4 years?
Mr. Deebach asked the Board the following questions:
• What are you thinking about the upcoming levy?
• What questions do you need to have answered?
Ms. Cool would like to know how far our fund balance can get us through if we went for
a reduced levy for the next 2 years. She likes the idea of getting back on cycle with the
other schools.
Mr. McLaurin would like to know what does our budget look like when that fund balance
is not there?
Mr. Erickson would like to know how things are going to play out now that we will be
going back to in person learning for the 2021-22 school year and what will our

enrollment look like.
Ms. Cool asked what kindergarten registration looks like. Ms. Larrabee said it is not what
we were hoping for at this point in the process. She said we anticipate the kids are
coming but they are not registering at this point.
Mr. McLaurin would like to see what a $1.50, $2.00 and $2.50 projections would look
like.
Ms. Cool would like to know how much support we will have from the citizen’s
committee to run the levy.
Dr. Quinn reminded the Board they still have 6 months but it is important for them to
start thinking about it.
Mr. Deebach said the next steps are to finalize the District Improvement Plan (DIP) and
tying the funding to the strategies. He said the district is negotiating for three of our union
budgets this summer.
Mr. Deebach said the District will try to get the budget wrapped up by the end of June.
Ms. Cool would like to know if a program is offered in the public school, how can we
offer programs so that students do not have to pay for it so that it is equitable for every
student. Mr. McLaurin agreed that is a great goal for us to have. Dr. Quinn agreed that we
need to look at those barriers that are holding students back. Ms. Riddle agreed that fits
under the equity umbrella; we just have to figure out how to do that.
4. ADJOURN
The meeting was adjourned at 8:48 p.m.

