Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes May 25, 2021
Generated by Kelly Warner
Members present: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Melinda Cool, Jessie Deardorff, Lee
Anne Riddle, Cuong Nguyen, Avneet Pannu
Meeting called to order at 5:36 PM
1. CONVENE
Information: 1.01 Call to Order
Mr. McLaurin called the meeting to order at 5:36 PM and welcomed audience members.
Present from the administration were Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn, Assistant
Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive Director of
Teaching & Learning Dr. Faye Britt, Executive Director of Teaching & Learning Kellie
Larrabee, Executive Director of Human Resources Mr. John Fairbairn and Principal
Heather Leighton.
Information:1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
At this time, the Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
Action: 2.01 Adopt Agenda
Dr. Quinn asked that Mr. McLaurin table item 7.04 Recognize the WASA Region 108
2021 Community Heroes Award Recipient until the June 29th Regular School Board
Meeting. Jessie Deardorff asked to remove the May 11th minutes from the May 11
Special Meeting for further review.
Lee Anne Riddle moved to adopt agenda minus item 7.04 and knowing that we are
removing the minutes from the consent agenda.
3. PUBLIC COMMENT [GC-3.3]
Information: 3.01 Receive Public Comment
Mr. McLaurin noted that we received one public comment in advance from Barbara
Johnson. Mr. McLaurin asked Dr. Quinn to follow up with Ms. Johnson following the
meeting.
4. EXECUTIVE SESSION
4.01 Plan the Interview of Candidates for Student Representative to the School Board (15
minutes)
At 5:44 p.m., the board convened into Executive Session for approximately 15 minutes
for the purpose of planning the interviews of the student candidates for membership on
the board. Mr. McLaurin noted that no action would be taken during the session.

Following the session, the board would reconvene into open session and proceed with the
agenda.
The Board reconvened into open session at 5:58 p.m. and continued with the agenda.
5. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
Information: 5.01 Interview Candidates for Student Representative to the School Board (40
minutes)
Board members interviewed the following candidates for the student representative position
on the board:
• Madisyn Butenschoen
• Jazzie Gonzales
6. EXECUTIVE SESSION
6.01 Review Qualifications of Candidates for Student Representative to the School Board (15
minutes)
At 6:25 p.m., the board convened into Executive Session for approximately 15 minutes
for the purpose of reviewing qualifications of candidates for the student representative to
the school board. Mr. McLaurin noted that no action would be taken during the session.
Following the session, the board would reconvene into open session and proceed with the
agenda.
The board reconvened into open session at 6:49 p.m.
7. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
Action: 7.01 Appoint Student Representative to the School Board
Jessie Deardorff moved to appoint Jazzie Gonzales as student representative to the school
board.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie Deardorff, Melinda
Cool
Information: 7.02 Recognize the 2021 Masonic Educator of the Year
Dr. Linda Quinn announced that Sandra Bird is the 2020 – 2021 Masonic Educator of the
Year. Two representatives from the Masonic Lodge, Mr. Dick Decima and Mr. Troy
Luginbill presented the award to Sandra Bird. Dr. Quinn read a tribute to Sandra Bird.
Information: 7.03 Recognize the 2021 Business of the Year
Dr. Linda Quinn presented the business of the year award to Children of the Setting Sun
Productions. The tribute to Children of the Setting Sun Productions can be found on
BoardDocs.
Information: 7.04 Recognize the WASA Region 108 2021 Community Heroes Award Recipient
This agenda item has been tabled until June 29 Regular School Board Meeting

Information: 7.05 Recognize Employees Who are Retiring
The Board members acknowledged the retirees by reading their names and positions in
the district.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Michele Barmore
Patricia Beaulaurier
Mike Black
Nancy Button
Sharon Collander
Renee Dralle
Susan Edwards
Edwin Elefson
Barb Gardiner
Sarah Haggith
Virginia Holmes
Patti Madison
Ray Martin
Jeri Owen
Susan Rhodes
Jennifer Richard
Tim Richard
John Shaw
Susan Sowers
Cathy Yale
Linda Watson

Information: 7.06 Recognize Student Board Member Avneet Pannu for Her Service on the Board
Dr. Linda Quinn read the tribute to Avneet Pannu, which can be found on BoardDocs.
Action: 7.07 Review and Approve the "Academic and Student Well-Being Recovery Plan"
Dr. Faye Britt explained the Well-being Recovery Plan to the Board.
The Board asked that Dr. Britt explain the School Wide Information System (SWIS). Dr.
Britt said this is a system that the district used at the elementary school for many years. It
is a place where we record student discipline referrals. She noted that it allows us to dig
deeper into the discipline patterns of the students. It is an internal system so the only
people that have access to this information would be the administrators, counselors, and
school psychologists. The system records where and when behaviors happen so that the
district can understand the motivations behind the behavior and work to develop targeted
interventions to provide the proper support for those behaviors.

Executive Director of Teaching & Learning Ms. Kellie Larrabee added that the SWIS
program is aligned with our PBIS program as well.
Dr. Kevin Erickson moved to approve the Academic and Student Well-Being Recovery
Plan.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie Deardorff, Melinda
Cool
Action: 7.08 Adopt Resolution No. 5-2021 Easement Agreement with City of Ferndale
Assistant Superintendent Mr. Mark Deebach explained the easement agreement with the
City of Ferndale to the Board. He noted that back in 1983 the district asked the city to
vacate the Golden Eagle Drive and allowed it to become part of the high school campus.
Although the easement was approved, it was never recorded officially with the county.
Mr. Deebach noted that when you go through a major construction project like we are
doing, you find things that need to be cleaned up a little bit and this is one of those items.
He also noted that the district thought it was in place since 1983, but this is to formalize
that plan.
Melinda Cool moved to adopt Resolution No. 5-2021 Easement Agreement with City of
Ferndale
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie Deardorff, Melinda
Cool
8. FOCUS ON STUDENTS
Information: 8.01 Receive the Monitoring Report for Results Policy R-6 Career Readiness
Dr. Quinn noted that they will need a little more time to complete the report. She said we
will get the hard copy report to the board after this meeting.
Information: 8.02 Review the Monitoring Report for Results Policy R-2.7 Academic
Achievement: Health & Physical Education
Mr. Mclaurin opened the Monitoring Report for Results Policy R-2.7 Academic
Achievement: Health & Physical Education up for discussion.
Melinda Cool noted that there was a lot of work put into this but COVID threw the plan
out the window. Ms. Cool had a question about the health textbooks that we have. She
said there was something in the report stating that the teachers no longer finds the health
books relevant so they use a variety of current open source materials to teach the health
standards. She asked if they work as a team to teach the curriculum.
Executive Director of Teaching & Learning Dr. Faye Britt answered that yes they worked
together as a team to make sure the results are aligned with the standards and that the
information is appropriate.

Ms. Cool mentioned that moving the health class from the student’s junior year to
freshman year was a good change. She had one child that took it as a junior and the other
as a freshman. She said it was a great improvement and the 9th grader learned things from
it.
Dr. Kevin Erickson asked if it makes sense to stay to open source materials and online.
Dr. Quinn said it makes sense to do that. She said this whole process has caused them to
get more serious about their curriculum adoption cycle. They have had many good
conversations about how to get this done. That means every 2 years they will look at
every discipline and make sure that the curriculum adoption cycle, which is on a 10-year
cycle, is adjusted as needed. She said in some of those disciplines it does not make sense
to buy new textbooks.
The board asked questions about the textbooks and curriculum.
Executive Director of Teaching & Learning Ms. Kellie Larrabee added that part of the
adoption process of curriculum is that we are required to get approval to use it even if the
resources are online.
Dr. Quinn said The next step in the evolution is for the teams to take over productions of
these reports.
Dr. Kevin Erickson appreciates the need to have that continuity that the goals that we are
trying to achieve in this report supersede the person in the position so if someone leaves
that is a goal that is recognized within the department and within the district so it keeps
going on.
Ms. Lee Anne Riddle found the concerns that she had as she was reading the report were
addressed in the report. Her one comment was that the report doesn’t show who is
participating. She would like to know what students are participating. It would also be
more helpful for the Board if the report can be done as a percentage rather than a count of
students that participate.
Ms. Cool also added that the tables do not take into account the students that do not do
sports.
Mr. McLaurin noted that he will record the written comments from the Board for
approval at next month’s board meeting.
9. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
Information: 9.01 Continued Discussion of Sponsorships and Community Donations Related to
the new FHS Project
Mr. McLaurin said the next item has to do with soliciting donations and community
sponsorships for the new Ferndale High School project. He noted that it is a topic that
was initiated by the Bond Oversight Committee and one we have had on our School
Board agendas for several months. At the April meeting, the Board received a report from

one of the Bond Oversight Committee Co-Chair, Anya Milton, who had previously met
with a small group of people to explore this topic in more depth.
Mr. McLaurin introduced Bond Oversight Committee Co-Chair Anya Milton to discuss
the report and the recommendations.
Ms. Milton thanked the Board for the opportunity to look at this. She said there is a lot of
opportunity for our businesses and individuals to support the district in a monetary way.
Mr. McLaurin said we have batted around what are items that we could or should ask the
community for.
Ms. Milton pointed out that there are many institutions that have foundations and raise
funds for special fundraising efforts. She noted that it is not unheard of. She said it is
beneficial to entertain the idea of what is possible and not get tied to the details. The
conversation originally stemmed from the Bond Oversight Committee and how can we
offset the cost of possibly turf fields or new equipment for CTE or technology. She also
said how can we fund advanced placement test exams for students who can afford that.
Ms. Milton said this is something that could really benefit our community in tremendous
ways. Ms. Milton explained the draft plan that is attached to BoardDocs.
The Board discussed ideas on how to solicit sponsorships, how to make this a reality and
what the legal ramifications are behind this. They also discussed the possibilities of
starting a foundation.
The Board agreed they will need to discuss the specifics of what the Board should ask for
and the list of people that should be visited.
Information: 9.02 Report on Capital Projects Bond
Assistant Superintendent of Business & Support Services Mr. Mark Deebach reported
that earthwork is underway at the high school. He said in the process of moving dirt they
uncovered a concrete slap, which turned out to be the old foundation from the previous
structure. The crew very quickly stopped work when they found old flooring attached to
the slap in case there was asbestos. They did testing and it does not have asbestos in the
flooring.
Mr. Deebach reported that while the crew was doing excavation of the old field broke a
very shallow fiber optic cable, which was connected to the CTE building. The cable was
very shallow and not where it should have been.
Mr. Deebach reported that the roofing repairs at Central are just about finished. He said
we are in the process of developing an RFP for the Custer brickwork. Things are moving
ahead and there is a lot of work that you can see happening now.
Information: 9.03 Continued Budget Discussion with Considerations for the Upcoming Levy
Mr. McLaurin said this agenda item is a continued discussion about the development of
the 2021-2022 budget. He said that Mr. Deebach is going to share with us a more refined
draft of the District’s plan to use its ESSER (Elementary and Secondary School

Emergency Relief) dollars. He reported that ESSER funds are one-time dollars from the
federal government.
Mr. Deebach explained the ESSER 1, 11, 111 Funds, which is attached to BoardDocs.
Ms. Kellie Larrabee explained the Multi-Tiered System & Support to the Board.
Mr. Deebach asked the Board about the 2023 levy plan. He asked the board to give
direction on what types of questions do they have, what information do they need, how
do they want to process it?
Dr. Kevin Erickson asked because of the limit per student would we be able to do $2.50.
He said with the enrollment down, is $2.50 even an option. He noted that we need $2.50
or more but what are people perception now that we have that ESSER money.
Ms. Cool believes we should do one more time with a 2-year levy to get back on track
with the other districts and then we can go back to a 4-year levy.
Dr. Quinn believes getting on the cycle with the other districts is important.
Mr. McLaurin would like information on how our Ferndale economy is doing. Mr.
Deebach will look into that.
The Board discussed what each option may look like if they chose $1.50, $2.00, or $2.50
and how that ESSER money will help with certain expenses.
Ms. Deardorff wants to know if there are fund available in the ESSER money for Since
Time Immemorial (STI) curriculum. She would like to purchase additional resources. Dr.
Quinn said that needs to be in our regular budget because ESSER money is one-time
funds and we would like that to be continuing.
Mr. Deebach will report back at the next meeting with the information that the Board
requested.
10. SHARING [GC-7.E.]
Information: 10.01 Student Board Members
Cuong shared information on his Thoughtexchange project. He will be sending an email
out to all students and teachers about how to improve the school culture environment.
Cuong is working with the leadership team to plan a Fall Festival to encourage school
spirit. He also noted that he went to the WSSDA Equity Conference. Cuong shared notes
from the equity conference.
Avneet announced that Cuong is one of the new presidents for the class officers. She
reported on a project that asked students what motivates them. She also reported that next
year there will be a mental health student support group. Avneet reported that June 9th is
the last day for seniors.

Avneet wrote a thank you note to the board for her time spent on the board. Avneet will
continue to work on a project with Mr. Moravec about bringing in therapy dogs during
finals week at the high school. She is still also working on her Cares Closet project at
FHS.
Information: 10.02 Elected Board Members
Lee Anne Riddle shared information about the Equity Conference that she attended. She
said that the equity policy piece was very powerful.
Ms. Riddle talked about Senate Bill 5044 and what WSSDA is doing to provide equity
training. She reported that the general assembly will happen in person in Spokane in
September. She also reported that the annual conference is currently planning to be in
person November 18-20 in Bellevue.
Ms. Riddle reported that she participated in the Science and Power of Hope workshop,
which she said was fabulous. She said it was very powerful.
Melinda Cool, Andrew McLaurin & Kevin Erickson shared information about their
family.
Information: 10.03 Superintendent
None
Information: 10.04 Executive Administration
None
11. SUPERINTENDENT CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Action:11.01 All administrative matters delegated to the superintendent that are required to be
approved by the Board will be acted upon by the Board via the consent agenda.
Mr. McLaurin reminded the board that they will pull out the minutes from the May 11
study session.
Dr. Kevin Erickson moved to approved the superintendent consent agenda. Motion
carried.
Action:11.02 Authorize Vouchers
Audit Committee Members are: Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Melinda Cool
Authorized Voucher Transmittals:
GENERAL FUND
Vouchers 282330-282542, 282476-282584, & 282604 in the amount of $949,483.67.
GENERAL FUND PAYROLL
Warrants 477806-477825 dated April 30, 2021, in the amount of $1,500,327.02; and
electronic deposits in the amount of $3,033,591.04 for a total of $4,533,918.06.

CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND
Vouchers 282453-282457 & 282585-282588 in the amount of $756,844.47.
A.S.B. FUND
Vouchers 282458-282473, 282589-282603 & 282605 in the amount of $13,795.76.
PPT FUND
Vouchers 282474-282475 in the amount of $108.68.
TRANSPORTATION/VEHICLE FUND
No May warrants
Action:11.03 Authorize Agreement with Northwest Career & Technical Academy
Authorized Agreement with Northwest Career & Technical Academy
Action:11.04 Adopt Resolution No. 6-2021 Canceling Warrants
Adopted Resolution No. 6-2021 Canceling Warrants
Action:11.05 Adopt Resolution No. 7-2021 Authorizing Membership in WIAA
Adopt Resolution No. 7-2021 Authorizing Membership in WIAA
Action:11.06 Accept April 2021 Fund Balance Financial Statements
Accept April 2021 Fund Balance Financial Statements
Action:11.07 Approve Hiring of Personnel
Approved Hiring of Personnel
Action:11.08 Authorize Personal Services and Supplemental Contracts
Authorized Personal Services and Supplemental Contracts
Action:11.09 Authorized Leave of Absences
Authorized Leave of Absences
Action:11.10 Accepted Resignations and Retirements
Accepted Resignations and Retirements
12. BOARD CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Action:12.01 The Board will use a consent agenda as a means to expedite the disposition of
routine matters and dispose of other items of business it chooses not to discuss.
Dr. Kevin Erickson moved to approved the superintendent consent agenda. Motion
carried.
Action:12.02 Approve Minutes

Approved minutes of the April 27 Regular School Board Meeting, as attached hereto and
made a part of the minutes.
Action:12.03 Approve the Monitoring Report for Results Policy R-2.4 Academic Achievement:
Technology
Approved the Monitoring Report for Results Policy R-2.4 Academic Achievement:
Technology
Action:12.04 Approve the Monitoring Report for Operational Expectations Policy OE-3
Relationship with the Community
Approved the Monitoring Report for Operational Expectations Policy OE-3 Relationship
with the Community
Action:12.05 Review Board of Directors' Budget
Reviewed Board of Directors' Budget
13. ADJOURN
The meeting was adjourned at 9:14 p.m.

___________________________________

___________________________________

School Board President

School Board Secretary

