Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes March 30, 2021
Generated by Kelly Warner
Members present: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Melinda Cool, Jessie Deardorff, Lee
Anne Riddle, Cuong Nguyen
Member absent: Avneet Pannu
Meeting called to order at 7:00 PM
1. CONVENE
Information: 1.01 Call to Order
Mr. McLaurin called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and welcomed online audience
members.
Present from the administration were Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn, Assistant
Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive Director of
Teaching & Learning Dr. Faye Britt, Executive Director of Teaching & Learning Kellie
Larrabee, and Executive Director of Human Resources Mr. John Fairbairn.
Information: 1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
At this time, the Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
Action: 2.01 Adopt Agenda
Lee Anne Riddle moved to adopt the meeting agenda.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Lee Anne Riddle, Melinda Cool, Jessie
Deardorff
3. PUBLIC COMMENT [GC-3.3]
Information: 3.01 Receive Public Comment
Mr. McLaurin explained the format of Zoom in receiving public comment. He noted that
we did not receive any public comment prior to tonight’s meeting.
4. FOCUS ON STUDENTS
Information: 4.01 Update on Reopening School
Mr. McLaurin told audience members that since the Board met last a lot has happened.
The majority our District staff members have received both doses of the Covid vaccine;
the Governor has issued a proclamation related to school reopening; the CDC has come
out with new information about physical distancing between students; the Governor has
made another announcement about translating the CDC’s information into guidance for
schools; and the State has published new rules for graduation ceremonies. He asked
Superintendent Dr. Quinn to report on what this all means for Ferndale.

Dr. Quinn provided an overview of the new information from the CDC and how the
district is processing it.
Executive Director of Human Resources Mr. John Fairbairn reported on the layers of
rules involved in the new guidance and some of the challenges related to common spaces,
lunches, and contact tracing. Mr. Fairbairn reported that any changes in working
conditions need to be discussed with the unions.
Executive Director of Teaching & Learning Ms. Larrabee reported on her conversations
with the elementary leadership team about expanding in-person learning.
Executive Director of Teaching & Learning Dr. Faye Britt reported on her conversations
with the secondary leadership team about expanding in-person learning. Dr. Britt assure
the Board that we are meeting the Governor’s Proclamation/mandate of at least 30% inperson for families who choose, whether or not we change what we are currently doing.
She also informed the Board that Principal of the Ferndale High School Mr. Jeremy
Vincent is surveying parents about their preferences in how graduation is held.
Mr. Fairbairn explained the asymptomatic surveillance testing which is a program that
the Children’s Hospital is offering. He reported that research shows you have a 50%
reduction in transmission when participating in asymptomatic testing. He informed the
Board that we are starting after spring break on April 12 at the secondary level. Students
will be tested one time a week.
Dr. Quinn concluded by stating that we are working toward full-time in-person learning,
but we have lots of details to work out before we can bring all students back full time.
Dr. Quinn and her team answered questions from the Board.
Information: 4.02 Report on the Current State of Implementation of the Since Time Immemorial
Curriculum
Dr. Quinn provided an overview of the Since Time Immemorial (STI) report, which is
attached to BoardDocs. She noted that this report is about the educational programs about
the Native American history and government. She acknowledged that the Board has only
had possession of the 23-page document for a day and a half and asked them if they have
questions about it at this time or if they would prefer to wait to discuss it at their next
meeting.
The Board will discuss this agenda item at the April Regular School Board Meeting.
Information: 4.03 Receive the Monitoring Report for Results Policy R-2.4 Academic
Achievement: Technology
Mr. McLaurin reminded audience members that the Board has approximately 25
governance policies that we monitor on a bi-annual basis. He said about half of the
policies focus on our operational expectations for the way the District is run by Dr. Quinn

and her team. The other half focus on the results the Board expects the District to achieve
with its students.
Mr. McLaurin said at each of our business meetings, we receive a new policy report from
Dr. Quinn, which we then have a month to read and review before discussing it at our
next business meeting. This month we are receiving the report on Results Policy 2.4. It
will be up for discussion at the regular school board meeting in April.
5. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
Information: 5.01 Receive Quarterly Report from Bond Oversight Committee
Anya Milton co-chair of the Bond Oversight Committee (BOC) provided an overview of
the quarterly report from the BOC, which is posted on BoardDocs.
Ms. Milton informed the Board that the BOC has met five times since the last report. The
Committee elevated one alternate member, Joe Lupo to a voting member, and lost one
member due to personal circumstances. The committee currently has two open, alternate,
positions that we would like to fill with members of the public that have a vested interest
in the bond projects.
Information: 5.02 Report on Capital Projects Bond
Assistant Superintendent of Business & Support Services Mr. Deebach said we hit a big
milestone this month. We had some big items go out for bid. He said we received 30 bid
packages during the 2 days of bid openings and had over 100 bidders. Mr. Deebach said
we are just under the 80 million of construction costs. He said we are 2.4% under our
target cost. Mr. Deebach reported that yesterday we were able to sign off on the auxiliary
gym, which we were not sure if we would be able to do but we are in a position now that
we can sign off on that as part of the project.
Dr. Quinn reported on the groundbreaking ceremony, which will be held on April 27 at
4:00pm.
Discussion: 5.03 Update on Sponsorships and Community Donations Related to the new FHS
Project
Mr. McLaurin reported that we are not in a position to discuss this topic this month but
we will add this agenda item to a future board meeting.
6. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
Action: 6.01 Revise Administrative Policy 6600 Transportation
Mr. Deebach said this is one of the policies that we need to continually update. He
provided an overview of the changes to the policy.
Melinda Cool moved to adopt the revised Administrative Policy 6600 Transportation
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Lee Anne Riddle, Melinda Cool, Jessie
Deardorff

Action: 6.02 Revise Administrative Policy 6000 Program Planning, Budget Preparation,
Adoption, and Implementation
Mr. Deebach provided an overview of the changes to Policy 6000.
Kevin Erickson moved to adopted the revised Administrative Policy 6000 Program
Planning, Budget Preparation, Adoption, and Implementation.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Lee Anne Riddle, Melinda Cool, Jessie
Deardorff
Action: 6.03 Revise the School Board’s Strategic Commitments
The Board asked that we change the verbiage of all students to each student throughout
the Strategic Commitments.
Melinda Cool made a motion to approve the strategic commitments with the few minor
changes mentioned by the board.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Lee Anne Riddle, Melinda Cool, Jessie
Deardorff
Action: 6.04 Adopt Calendars for 2021-2022 and 2022-2023 School Years
Dr. Faye Britt reminded the Board about the process for setting the school calendar dates.
She informed the Board that these two calendars have been voted on by the teachers
union.
Lee Anne Riddle moved to adopt the calendars.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Lee Anne Riddle, Melinda Cool, Jessie
Deardorff
Information: 6.05 Review the Monitoring Report for OE-3 Relationship with the Community
The Board Discussed the Monitoring Report for OE-3 Relationship with the Community.
This report was presented to the Board at the February 23 school board meeting. Mr.
McLaurin will collect the coversheets with the notes from each board member after
tonight’s meeting.
Action: 6.06 Approve Resolution 2419R Emergency Waiver of High School Graduation Credits
Executive Director of Teaching & Learning Dr. Faye Britt provided an overview of the
Resolution 2419R Emergency Waiver of High School Graduation Credits, which was
provided by WSSDA.
Lee Anne moved to approve the Resolution 2419R Emergency Waiver of High School
Graduation Credits.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Lee Anne Riddle, Melinda Cool, Jessie
Deardorff

Discussion: 6.07 Discuss Resuming In-Person Meetings
The Board discussed resuming in-person school board meetings. The consensus of the
Board is that we continue to meet as we are currently. Dr. Quinn and Mr. Deebach will
explore how much it will cost to have the equipment and manpower to live-stream inperson board meetings. The Board decided that we will check back in 3 months on this
topic.
Information: 6.08 Continue Discussion Regarding the Selection of a New Superintendent
Mr. McLaurin reminded audience members that the Board decided at our special meeting
on March 16 to appoint Assistant Superintendent Mark Deebach to serve as acting
Superintendent when Dr. Quinn retires on September 30, 2021. Mr. McLaurin said he
will serve in that capacity for nine months until we bring a new superintendent on board
on July 1, 2022, which is the start date for the vast majority of superintendent contracts
across the country and the likely date when a new leader will be available to begin
working in Ferndale as our Superintendent.
The Board discussed the timeline for the search process, which will need to begin with
hiring a search firm that will help the Board map out the rest of the steps. Dr. Quinn
suggested that Executive Director of Human Resources Mr. John Fairbairn work with the
Board to put out an Request for Proposal (RFP) for a search firm.
The Board will discuss this topic further at a future study session.
7. SHARING [GC-7.E.]
Information: 7.01 Student Board Members
Cuong Nguyen shared information on his Thoughtexchange progress. He is working with
the Leadership Teacher Mr. Moravec on testing the Thoughtexchange application in his
leadership class. He also reported on his work with student voice and equity.
Information: 7.02 Elected Board Members
No sharing.
Information: 7.03 Superintendent
No sharing.
Information: 7.04 Executive Administration
No sharing.
8. SUPERINTENDENT CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
8.01 All administrative matters delegated to the superintendent that are required to be approved
by the Board will be acted upon by the Board via the consent agenda.
Kevin Erickson moved to accept the superintendent consent agenda. Motion carried.
Action: 8.02 Authorize Vouchers
Authorized Voucher Transmittals:

GENERAL FUND
Vouchers 281861-281978, 281999, 282000-282104 & 282122 in the amount of
$784,316.11.
GENERAL FUND PAYROLL
Warrants 477763-477785 dated February 26, 2021, in the amount of $7,370.44; and
electronic deposits in the amount of $2,198,953.34 for a total of $4,546,261.28.
CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND
Vouchers 281979-281985 & 282105-282108 in the amount of $688,179.56.
A.S.B. FUND
Vouchers 281986-281996 & 282109-282121 in the amount of $18,284.98
PPT FUND
Voucher 281997-281998 in the amount of $470.00
TRANSPORTATION/VEHICLE FUND
No February warrants
Action: 8.03 Adopt Resolution No. 4-2021 Canceling Warrants
Adopted Resolution No. 4-2021 canceling General Fund warrants numbered 278158 and
279592, as attached hereto and made part of the minutes.
Action: 8.04 Accept the February 2021 Fund Balance Financial Statements
Accepted the February 2021 Fund Balance Financial Statements, as attached hereto and
made part of the minutes.
Action: 8.05 Authorize the 2021-22 Whatcom Discovery Cooperative Program Interlocal
Agreement
Authorized the 2021-22 Whatcom Discovery Cooperative Program Interlocal Agreement,
as attached hereto and made part of the minutes.
Action: 8.06 Approve Hiring of Personnel
Approved the hiring of personnel, per the list attached hereto and made a part of the
minutes.
Action: 8.07 Accept Resignations and Retirements
Approved the resignations and retirements per the list attached hereto and made a part of
the minutes.
Action: 8.08 Authorize Leave of Absences
Approved leave of absences, per the list attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action: 8.09 Authorize Personal Services and Supplemental Contracts

Approved Personal and Supplemental contracts for February 2021, per the list attached
hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action: 8.10 Authorize Travel
Authorized travel for Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn to attend the District
Administration Leadership Institute. This is a superintendent meeting that Dr. Quinn was
registered to attend last year. It was canceled due to COVID. This is the rescheduled
event that occurs during Spring Break.
9. BOARD CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
9.01 The Board will use a consent agenda as a means to expedite the disposition of routine
matters and dispose of other items of business it chooses not to discuss.
Kevin Erickson moved to accept the board’s consent agenda. Motion carried.
9.02 Approve Minutes
Approved minutes of February 23 Regular School Board meeting, March 9 and March 16
Special School Board Meeting, as attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
9.03 Adopt Elementary Language Art Materials for the 2021-2022 School Year
Adopted the Elementary Language Art Materials for the 2021-2022 School Year, as
attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
9.04 Approve Monitoring Report for Policy R-2.3 Academic Achievement: Science
Approved the Monitoring Report for Policy R-2.3 Academic Achievement: Science as
attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
9.05 Review Board of Directors' Budget
Reviewed the year-to-date Board of Directors' Budget as of February 28, 2021, as
attached hereto and made part of the minutes.
10. ADJOURN
Mr. McLaurin noted that they will hold a study session on Tuesday, April 13 to discuss
the development of the 2021-2022 budget.
The meeting was adjourned at 9:52 p.m.

___________________________________
School Board President

______________________________
School Board Secretary

