Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes May 11, 2021
Generated by Kelly Warner
Members present: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie Deardorff,
Melinda Cool
Member absent: Avneet Pannu, Cuong Nguyen
Meeting called to order at 7:00 PM
1. CONVENE
1.01 Call to Order
Mr. McLaurin called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and welcomed audience members.
Present from the administration were Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn, Assistant
Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive Director of
Teaching & Learning Dr. Faye Britt, Executive Director of Teaching & Learning Kellie
Larrabee, Executive Director of Human Resources Mr. John Fairbairn and Principal of
Horizon Middle School David Rodriguez.
Mr. McLaurin said that, although we are back where we have held so many previous
meetings, we are not back to doing things exactly the way we used to do them. During
this time when Washington is still in a declared state of emergency, we are required to
comply with some additional provisions of the Open Public Meeting Act
Mr. McLaurin called on Assistant Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mr.
Deebach to provide an overview of the COVID protocols for in-person board meetings.
Mr. Deebach reported that we ordered new technology that will help streamline the
process of live-streaming in-person meetings. He reported that people will now need to
sign up to come to in-person meetings so that we do not exceed the room capacity. It will
be on a first come first service basis and we will need to obtain the attendees name and
contact information for contact tracing. The information attendees provide is nondisclosable information and it will be kept on file for 28 days. Mr. Deebach explained
that the tricky part of the in-person meetings is to also have a virtual option, which allows
for participation from people who attend remotely. Mr. Deebach noted that we hope to
have new technology in place for the May 25th regular school board meeting.
1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
At this time, the Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA
2.01 Adopt Agenda
Melinda Cool moved to adopt the meeting agenda.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries

Yea: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie Deardorff, Melinda
Cool
3. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
3.01 Update on Student Board Selection Process
Dr. Quinn provided an overview of the planning meeting she had with Cuong, Avneet &
Dr. Britt for the student school board representative. She reported that we did not get
enough applicants for the student school board position so we will be doing more
outreach for additional applicants. The new deadline is May 20th. Dr. Quinn requested
that the Board extend the May 25th meeting to allow time for interviewing the candidates.
The Board members agreed. She noted that Cuong and Avneet are also working on
getting the word out to sophomores.
3.02 Approve Request for Proposal (RFP) for Consultant Services to Assist in Superintendent
Search
Mr. McLaurin explained tonight is the Board’s opportunity to approve the Request for
Proposals, sometimes called an RFP, for consultant services to assist us with our search
for a new superintendent. Mr. McLaurin reminded the Board that all that they are being
asked to approve tonight is an advertisement that invites search firms to send them their
plans for how they would help them and how much they would charge for their services.
Once the Board approve this RFP, Mr. Fairbairn will send it out to the people and firms
that do this kind of work. If they are interested in doing it for the Board, they will send
the Board a proposal. Mr. McLaurin said once the Board has received their proposals and
review them; the Board will get to choose which of the firms they want to interview and
what they want to ask them. At the end of the interview process, the Board will select the
firm they believe best fits their needs.
Mr. Fairbairn gave an overview of the changes to the purposed RFP. He noted that the
version that was posted on BoardDocs earlier was a draft. There is now an updated
version on BoardDocs and a hardcopy in front of each Board member. He said we have
identified 11 search firms that we can send this out to once it is approved.
Melinda Cool asked a question about the sixth bullet down under the heading Proposal
Specifications which states, “Description of the process the consultant suggests for
advertising and recruiting candidates, including measures to assure equal opportunity and
other considerations.” Ms. Cool asked what does other considerations include.
Dr. Quinn said she thought the same thing and the search firms can tell them what the
other considerations could be. It could be equity/diversity. Mr. McLaurin added this RFP
was modeled after a template they got from the ESD.
Lee Anne Riddle moved to approve Request for Proposal (RFP) for Consultant Services
to Assist in Superintendent Search
Final Resolution: Motion Carries

Yea: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie Deardorff, Melinda
Cool
4. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
4.01 Discuss Issues Related to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
Mr. McLaurin said this is our opportunity to have a conversation about equity-related
perspectives, policies, issues, and initiatives. He said he believes we all recognize equity
is a very big and broad topic that we are not going to “solve” in one session, so he set the
expectation at the outset that this will be the first installment of a larger equity-focused
dialogue among the members of this School Board.
Mr. McLaurin said I say the “first installment” because, even though the “equity” word
has come up in a number of our meetings and discussions, it has not been an explicit
agenda item during the 18 months since Jessie and Melinda have been on the Board.
Mr. McLaurin asked Dr. Quinn and Mr. Rodriquez, the Chair of the District Equity Team
to help frame the dialogue and provide some background information.
Dr. Quinn described the type of conversations they would like to have this evening about
diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI). Dr. Quinn proposes tonight’s conversation is more
of a dialog where they are trying to understand where the members of the board and
executive team are regarding DEI. She provided each Board member with a document
with 12 guidelines for having high-stake conversations. Dr. Quinn asked each member in
the room to read one of the guidelines aloud. The guidelines are as follows:
1. Speak your truth, knowing it’s only part of the whole truth.
2. Accept one another’s reality.
3. Take risks and challenge yourself.
4. If you wonder, ask. Ask hard questions compassionately.
5. Listen for understanding.
6. Work to be more curious and less judgmental.
7. Commit to learning, not debating; sharing information, not persuading.
8. Expect to experience discomfort.
9. Stay present and engaged; don’t check out when it gets hard.
10. Share talk time. Step up, then step back.
11. Expect and accept non-closure.
12. Allow others to learn what you already know.
Dr. Quinn invited each Board member to share their thoughts on the topic of equity. The
Board agreed at the outset that the conversation would not likely get to any satisfying
closure or even significant decisions, both because the topic is big and multi-faceted and
also because it was the first time this particular Board had held an intentional equityfocused session.
Each of the Board members shared from the heart where they were personally coming
from in relation to the topic of equity -- touching on their experiences and perspectives

and also their wonderings and questions -- as an important foundational piece for moving
forward with the work. The Board discussed:
•
•
•
•

negative experiences for students of color in the District’s extracurricular
activities programs, especially with regard to their not getting equal playing time;
the lack of enough diversity of perspective represented on the current School
Board;
the difficulty of figuring out how to navigate through this topic without offending
anyone;
the desire of Board members to continue to grow in their knowledge of equityrelated issues.

Ms. Riddle noted that this is also the first time the Board has met back in-person for a
board meeting, which is emotional for her in itself. Ms. Riddle said she has these types of
conversations a lot in her work life. Ms. Riddle said that she works hard knowing that she
is looking through her own lens and knowing that her lens is not like everyone else’s and
she tries to understand. She appreciates the opportunity to have this discussion because
for her equity is the foundation of all of the Board’s work.
Ms. Cool echoed what Ms. Riddle said about seeing things through her own lens. She
noted that she sees things as a white woman and does not like the comment “the girls in
the office”. She feels it is a belittling term whether it is used intentionally or not. She
likes to think that she looks for where are those microaggressions and those things that
put people on a different level whether it is intentional or unintentional but so many times
she is not seeing it. Ms. Cool noted that the Board does not have a huge diversity of
lenses, which bothers her. She said how do we hear the voices that are not here.
Ms. Deardorff said when she thinks of equity she thinks of it not only in school but also
on the field and on the court which is part of learning too. She said what students learn on
the field is part of school too. She said we need kids that do play well, she sees that, but
we also need the kids that want to play well and they want to learn. She said this is the
same in the classroom as well and students being able to see the teachers of their own
color. She noted that she loves Mr. Fairbairn’s Grow Your Own program and wants to
help get the word out. She is ready to talk to a group of kids that are looking forward to
doing something for their community especially those kids of color. She told Mr.
Fairbairn that anyway she could help to let her know.
Dr. Erickson said a lot of our definition of equity is based on lenses and based on our
experiences. It is trying to expand our experiences and understand those things without
prejudgments. He said not to judge a person based on their color, what their wearing or
doing. Part of the challenge is figuring out what you say or how you say it with no
intention to offend people. He said we always want to protect ourselves and sometimes
those prejudgments come out. He said the important part of diversity and equity is getting
to know people better and getting to understand people better.

Mr. McLaurin said when weighing out equity verses equality, how you reconcile one
verses the other is really hard. He said for him the last 2 years have been years of hard
change and hard thoughts about issues around equity and what does it really mean in our
schools, businesses and homes. He said there will be discomfort with this conversation
but he looks forward to that exchange because he knows there is a lot of growth that he
needs to make in this area and he appreciates everyone’s thoughts.
Dr. Quinn asked the board to share thoughts about what they heard from the other
members.
Ms. Deardorff said if we are looking at what we would like to work towards she would
like to see a broad stroke policy of some kind. She noted that she likes what Mr. Fairbairn
is doing; we work together to get people involved and include the kids that are being
marginalized or being pushed aside because they are not number one or are not the right
color. Those are the kids that we need to start including. She said that the kids are
brought up to use sports to enhance their education. She said when they fall in love with
sports they fall in love with school. Ms. Deardorff said it’s that teacher that grabs them
and holds them to that standard or that coach that gives them the right words to make
them feel good instead of letting them sit on the bench all year long when they practice
just as hard as everyone else. She said those are the things we need to look for to help our
students. Ms. Deardorff said that there are coaches in Ferndale that may not like the
student’s skin color so they make them sit on the bench all yearlong. Ms. Deardorff told a
story about a Lummi student that did not get to play in any games during the whole year
and how the coach treated the parent when she addressed him.
Ms. Deardorff said there was a study that showed Lummi kids performed better in school
when they played extra-curricular activities. She said the equity part of the Board’s work
is what she is here for. Ms. Deardorff said she does not want to quit until the Board does
something to help these kids. She is on the board to make sure the Lummi kids succeed in
Ferndale.
Dr. Quinn asked Mr. Rodriquez to provide an overview of what the Equity Team has
done this past year. Mr. Rodriquez explained he was a participant of the Equity Team
prior to this school year and prior to being the Chair of the District Equity Team. In his
reflection as a participant, Mr. Rodriguez felt the need to invite more people so that they
would have a more diverse team. As Chair, Mr. Rodriguez invited the administrators
from all level, members of the community and certificated/classified staff. One thing that
he felt was very important was to have a voice for students as well so he invited a diverse
group of students from the leadership classes.
Mr. Rodriguez said since the pandemic began there were a lot of challenges but they were
still able to get everyone together for virtual meetings. Each meeting averaged 25 to 30
members and they had great conversations about what does equity mean for each of us.
Mr. Rodriguez said they did interactive activities to get to know each other, which made
the conversations easier. They looked at equity work from other districts and looked at a

variety of policies and mission statements. The group identified the priorities for equity
work to consider moving forward. The equity team would like the district to consider the
following:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

A common message around equity for everyone in the district at every level
An equity policy to be considered by the Board of Directors
A common and community friendly definition for equity
o Something that simplifies equity and tells people exactly what we mean.
Expand to include more of the populations we serve
Professional develop for everyone around equity
Review of curriculum to make sure it includes diverse perspectives
A more diverse workforce

Some of the questions that the Equity Team had are as follows:
•
•
•
•

What is the purpose of the Equity Team moving forward?
How does this work get done?
How and where do we publish updates from the Equity Team for transparency
purposes?
How do we engage more of our populations that are not currently represented?

Mr. Rodriguez reported that there is a lot of good work happening on the team and it is
great to have different perspectives. He feels he learns the most from the students on the
committee since that is who we serve and it is great to hear what they say/want. There
were 4-6 students present in the meetings.
Dr. Quinn noted that Cuong is doing a thought exchange on the student’s point of view.
Cuong has been working on how to ask the right questions to get the proper feedback.
Mr. Rodriguez said he noted that he would like to include parent representatives on the
Equity Team next year.
Mr. Erickson asked how can you get diversity with students when you are only picking
student from the leadership classes to participate? He wants it to be a safe place where
students feel comfortable expressing their opinion.
Dr. Quinn talked about listening programs that the district hosted in the past for students
to get together to express their feelings and tell the district how to make school better.
The district asked the students to come spend an hour telling them their opinions.
Ms. Cool thinks getting kids from the listening programs rather than leadership class
would give a wider variety of students to share their voice. She said the student voice is
the most important.
One of the things Mr. Rodriguez and Dr. Quinn talked about is inviting the Equity Team
on a quarterly basis to provide recommendations to the Board. Dr. Quinn said that is one

idea for how we can tie these two things together, the work of the Equity Team and the
use of the Board’s conversation.
Dr. Quinn posted some of the equity-related language from the Board’s governance
policies around the room as points of reference and asked the Board to take time walking
around the room to review the policies. Dr. Quinn asked the Board to make a note of the
equity-related language on the walls that they would like to discuss.
After the Board viewed the language, Dr. Quinn noted there is quite a bit in our policies
that has to do with diversity, equity and inclusion it is just spread throughout our policies.
The Board discussed the pieces of the policies that stood out to them.
After the discussion, the Board members agreed it would be a great idea to make the
Equity Team an advisory board. They would like to do the official paperwork as they did
with the Bond Oversight Committee. The Equity Team could then give recommendations
or quarterly reports to the Board.
Dr. Quinn asked if everyone thinks quarterly reports are enough. The Board thinks it is a
great place to start. Dr. Quinn noted the Board could commission the committee so it will
be the Board’s committee not the superintendent’s.
Mr. McLaurin noted this is the first of many ongoing conversations about equity. The
Board will make equity, diversity and inclusion a standing item on the business meeting
(quarterly at first while they are searching for a new superintendent).
Dr. Quinn noted that she will come back to the Board with a proposal for an Equity
Committee under Policy GC (Governance Culture) 5.
5. EXECUTIVE SESSION
5.01 The Board will convene into Executive Session for approximately 10 minutes to discuss a
real estate matter. There will be no action taken during or after the session.
The Board convened into executive session at 8:57pm.
6. ADJOURN
The Board reconvened into open session at 9:03pm and immediately adjourned.

____________________________________
School Board President

_________________________________
School Board Secretary

