Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes September 28, 2021
Generated by Jackson Hogan
Members present: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie Deardorff, Melinda Cool,
Cuong Nguyen, Jazzie Gonzales
A video recording of this meeting can be found on the Ferndale School District YouTube page.
Meeting called to order at 7:01 PM
1. CONVENE
1.01 Call to Order
Mr. McLaurin called the meeting to order at 7:01 PM and welcomed audience members. He also
reminded the audience that face masks are required at School Board meetings and all other indoor
activities in the Ferndale School District.
Present from the executive team were Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn, Assistant Superintendent for
Business & Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive Director of Human Resources John
Fairbairn, Executive Director of Teaching & Learning Dr. Faye Britt and Executive Director of
Teaching & Learning Kellie Larrabee. Director of Communications and Community Engagement
Celina Rodriguez and Vista Middle School Principal Heather Leighton were also present.
1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
2.01 Adopt Agenda
Dr. Quinn requested moving agenda item 6.01, Approve Superintendent Search Calendar, to the
front of the agenda. Mark Venn, a consultant with search firm Northwest Leadership Associates,
would be unable to join the meeting over Zoom later in the evening, she said.
Mr. McLaurin also asked if agenda item 9.02, Approve Monitoring Report for Operational
Expectations Policy 9 (OE-9) Learning Environment, could be removed from the consent agenda.
Dr. Erickson moved to adopt the agenda with those two changes. The motion carried unanimously.
3. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
3.01 Approve Superintendent Search Calendar
Mr. McLaurin reminded board members that the consultants from Northwest Leadership Associates
provided them with a draft schedule at their Special School Board Meeting on Sept. 15. They have
returned with a revised timeline, he said.
Mr. McLaurin then introduced Ms. Rodriguez and Mr. Venn, the latter of whom joined the meeting
via Zoom. The two described the revised superintendent search timeline to the Board, and Mr. Venn
gave recommendations on how to hold community focus groups.
The Board approved the superintendent search calendar by consensus.
4. PUBLIC COMMENT [GC-3.3]

4.01 Receive Public Comment
Mr. McLaurin summarized how public comment functioned at the prior regular board meeting on
August 31, where commenters who did not want to wear face masks were provided with an outdoor
arrangement. Because some said that set-up was unfair, the Board came up with an alternate
solution, he said.
The Board will continue only to accept in-person comments from those willing to wear a face mask,
and the outdoor section was discontinued, Mr. McLaurin said. However, if a commenter cannot
make the in-person meeting or doesn’t wish to wear a mask, they can address the Board from their
home via Zoom, he said.
Pat Roegele said she was frustrated at the poor internet access in schools and the shortage of tablets
for student and staff use.
Tiffany Linhart spoke against vaccine and face mask mandates.
Clay Owen spoke against face mask mandates and excessive hand-washing in schools.
Elizabeth Perry spoke against face mask mandates.
Andrew Gustafson spoke against face mask mandates. He also said the minutes of past board
meetings did not accurately reflect previous public comments. He asked the Board to keep the future
replacement levy at $1.50 per $1,000 of assessed value.
Mr. McLaurin reminded the public commenters that the Board does not respond to public comments
during meetings, but they do listen.
5. FOCUS ON STUDENTS
5.01 Report on Student Enrollment
Mr. Deebach gave board members a handout about student enrollment. He explained that, although
enrollment was up compared to last fall, it was lower than the district’s optimistic projection.
However, the Ferndale Family Partnership and Jump Start programs have seen a big jump in student
enrollment, Mr. Deebach noted.
The Board then had a discussion about student enrollment and its effect on budgeting.
5.02 Receive the Monitoring Report for Results Policy 3 (R-3) Citizenship
Dr. Quinn briefly spoke about her report on Results Policy 3. She said it was exciting to have Dr.
Britt work with high school students to define what civic engagement standards should be.
Mr. McLaurin said the Board will discuss this report at its regular October meeting.
6. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
6.01 Report on Capital Projects Bond
Mr. Deebach gave the Board an update on bond-related projects. He said the district had just closed
the third and final bond sale, construction of the new Ferndale High School building had begun to go
vertical, and the furniture fair – at which the community and school staff can give feedback on
potential school furniture and fixtures – will be held in November.
Board members expressed excitement that the excellent bond interest rate will result in saving
taxpayers money.

6.02 Quarterly Report from Bond Oversight Committee
Mr. McLaurin thanked the Bond Oversight Committee members for their long hours of work serving
the district. He then introduced Riley Cornelsen, chair of the Bond Oversight Committee.
Mr. Cornelsen summarized the last few Bond Oversight Committee meetings for board members.
His topics included a change of committee leadership, discussion of sponsorship opportunities for
the new high school, and a request for more visuals regarding bond spending and high school
construction.
Board members and Dr. Quinn thanked Mr. Cornelsen for the report.
6.03 Discuss Donations and/or Sponsorships for the New High School
Mr. McLaurin said the Bond Oversight Committee had asked the Board to explore the option of
seeking a donation or sponsorship for the new high school facility. Mr. Deebach noted that this topic
has been brought up at multiple prior board meetings, and the board has consistently supported the
idea.
After some discussion, the Board asked the district to create a board-sanctioned committee on the
matter, and to bring them a proposal for such a committee to vote on, at the October regular meeting.
6.04 Review the Monitoring Report for Operational Expectations Policy 7 (OE-7) Asset Protection
Mr. McLaurin reminded the Board that the monitoring report for OE-7 was given to the board at their
prior regular meeting in August.
The Board then discussed the contents of the report, which is posted on BoardDocs.
Mr. McLaurin said the Board will vote on the OE-7 report at its October regular meeting.
6.05 Discussion of Upcoming Replacement Levy
Mr. McLaurin summarized the district’s recent history with levies: The district’s failed levy in
February 2020, which was at a rate of $2.50 per $1,000 of assessed value for four years. In November
2020, the district resubmitted with a proposed rate of $1.50 per $1,000 for two years, and it passed, he
said.
The district will need to have a replacement levy on the ballot in 2022 in order to collect levy funds in
2023, and the February 2022 election date is only a few months away, Mr. McLaurin said. Mr.
Deebach told the Board that they needed to decide on a date to put the replacement levy on the ballot,
what rate to ask for, and whether to ask for a two- or four-year levy.
After some discussion, the Board members arrived at consensus to ask voters to pass a two-year
replacement levy of $1.50 per $1,000 of assessed value in the February 2022 election. Mr. McLaurin
noted that the Board will formally vote on the matter at its October regular board meeting.
7. SHARING [GC-7.E.]
7.01 Student Board Members
Ms. Gonzales and Mr. Nguyen said many current Ferndale High School students were displeased
with the new FHS logo and colors. The board and Dr. Quinn then had a discussion about the logo
selection process and peoples’ opinions on the new look. Dr. Quinn said there were student
representatives on the selection committee.

Mr. Nguyen said he believes construction work at the high school is going well, and Ms. Gonzales
agreed.
Ms. Gonzales also asked what the plan for homecoming would be. Dr. Quinn said the plan is to hold
an outdoor event in two sessions, to limit the spread of COVID-19. She said she was proud of FHS
students for using their voice effectively to collaborate with school administrators to find a safe way
to hold the dance.
Mr. Nguyen said there are certain parts of the high school where internet access is poor, making it
difficult for students to access the Canvas app for schoolwork. He also commented on wanting to
bringing back the high school’s homework club.
7.02 Elected Board Members
Ms. Riddle asked if any board member was interested in being Ferndale’s voting member at the
WSSDA General Assembly in October.
7.03 Superintendent
Dr. Quinn thanked the Board for their hard work during her 12 years as superintendent. Mr.
McLaurin and Ms. Deardorff thanked Dr. Quinn for her leadership.
7.04 Executive Administration
Dr. Britt said she met with Bernie Thomas, Superintendent of Lummi Nation Schools, and the two
were interested in hosting a joint meeting between the Lummi Nation School Board and the Ferndale
School Board. She suggested holding it before the regular November board meeting, which board
members said could work for them.
Mr. Deebach thanked Dr. Quinn for her years of leadership, friendship and mentorship. Mr. Nguyen
shared a story of struggling in Ferndale schools as a young immigrant, but Dr. Quinn visited his class
and inspired him.
8. SUPERINTENDENT CONSENT AGENDA
8.01 All administrative matters delegated to the superintendent that are required to be approved by the
Board will be acted upon by the Board via the consent agenda.
Ms. Riddle and Ms. Cool said they wanted previous minutes to be revised to better reflect the
opinions expressed by public commenters, and other board members agreed.
Dr. Erickson moved to accept the Superintendent Consent Agenda. The motion carried
unanimously.
8.02 Authorize Vouchers
Authorized Voucher Transmittals:
GENERAL FUND
Vouchers 283315-283409, 283424, 283425, 283426-283461, 283471-283586 & 283600 in the
amount of $2,232,418.16.
GENERAL FUND PAYROLL
Warrants 477896-477916 dated August 31, 2021, in the amount of $1,626,650.84; and electronic
deposits in the amount of $3,052,141.15 for a total of $4,678,791.99.

CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND
Vouchers 283410-283415, & 283462-283465 in the amount of $4,613,536.82.
A.S.B. FUND
Vouchers 283416-283423, 283466-283470 & 283587-283599 in the amount of $23,497.91.
PPT FUND
No September warrants
TRANSPORTATION/VEHICLE FUND
No September warrants
8.03 Approve State and Federal Grant Applications Assurances
Approved general assurances for various state and federal grants.
8.04 1GPA Cooperative Procurement Membership Agreement
Authorized the Cooperative Procurement Membership Agreement between the district and 1GPA.
8.05 Approve Highly Capable Program Plan for Fiscal Year 2021-22
Approved the Highly Capable Program Plan for Fiscal Year 2021-22.
8.06 Accept August 2021 Fund Balance Financial Statements
Accepted the August 2021 Fund Balance Financial Statements.
8.07 Approve Hiring of Personnel
Approved the hiring of personnel, as attached here and made a part of the minutes.
8.08 Accept Resignations and Retirements
Accepted resignations and retirements, as attached here and made a part of the minutes.
8.09 Authorize Personal Services and Supplemental Contracts
Authorized personal services and supplemental contracts, as attached here and made a part of the
minutes.
8.10 Authorize Leave of Absences
Authorized the leave of absences, as attached here and made a part of the minutes.
9. BOARD CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
9.01 The Board will use a consent agenda as a means to expedite the disposition of routine matters and
dispose of other items of business it chooses not to discuss.
Dr. Erickson moved to accept the Board Consent Agenda, except for the minutes, which will be
revised. The motion carried unanimously.
9.02 Approve Monitoring Report for Operational Expectations Policy 9 (OE-9) Learning Environment
This item was removed.
4.04 Approve Monitoring Report for Operational Expectations Policy 5 (OE-5) Financial Planning
Approved the Monitoring Report for Operational Expectations Policy 5 (OE-5) Financial
Planning.

9.04 Approve Minutes
This item was removed.
9.05 Review Board of Directors’ Budget
Reviewed the year-to-date Board of Directors’ Budget as of August 31, 2021.
10. FOCUS ON STAFF
10.01 Swear in Interim Superintendent
Mr. McLaurin reminded the Board that Dr. Quinn’s final day as Superintendent will be Thursday,
Sept. 30, and Mr. Deebach will serve as Interim Superintendent and Chief Financial Officer from
Oct. 1 through June 30, 2022.
Mr. McLaurin then swore Mr. Deebach into office. The board applauded.
11. ADJOURN
The meeting was adjourned at 9:43 PM.
____________________________________

_________________________________

School Board President

School Board Secretary

