Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes November 30, 2021
Generated by Jackson Hogan
A video recording of this meeting can be found on the Ferndale School District YouTube page.
Meeting called to order at 7:03 PM
1. CONVENE
1.01 Call to Order
Andrew McLaurin called the meeting to order at 7:03 PM and welcomed audience members who
joined via Zoom video conference.
Present from the school board were Andrew McLaurin, Peggy Uppiano, Kevin Erickson, Steve
Childs, Jessie Deardorff, Melinda Cool and Cuong Nguyen. (Jessie Deardorff left partway through
the meeting and did not return.)
Present from the executive team were Interim Superintendent Mark Deebach, Executive Director of
Human Resources John Fairbairn, Executive Director of Teaching & Learning Dr. Faye Britt and
Executive Director of Teaching & Learning Kellie Larrabee.
1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
1.03 Land Acknowledgment
Mr. Nguyen recited the Land Acknowledgement.
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
2.01 Adopt Agenda
Ms. Cool asked if item 3.03 could be changed from action to discussion. She said it would be
beneficial to have a discussion about the reorganization of the school board that evening, then have
the Board vote on it during the December regular meeting.
Ms. Cool moved to adopt the agenda with the change to item 3.03. The motion carried unanimously.
3. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
3.01 Honor Outgoing School Board Members
Mr. McLaurin said he would hand temporary board president duties to Dr. Erickson, the board vice
president. Mr. McLaurin then congratulated the two new board members, Mr. Childs and Ms.
Uppiano, and said it was his privilege to serve on the Ferndale School Board for over a decade.
Dr. Erickson and Mr. Deebach thanked departing board members Mr. McLaurin and Lee Anne
Riddle for their years of service.
3.02 Swear in New School Board Members to Office
Mr. Deebach administered the oath of office to Steve Childs and Peggy Uppiano. Both were elected
in November to serve on the school board for a four-year term.

Dr. Erickson then welcomed Mr. Childs and Ms. Uppiano to the board.
3.03 Reorganization of the School Board
Dr. Erickson said that per board policy new board members cannot be named as president or vice
president during their first year. The Board then discussed what qualities they would like to see in
board leadership, including being welcoming, the ability to answer questions, run meetings
efficiently, and more.
The Board did not vote on new board leadership.
4. PUBLIC COMMENT [GC-3.3]
4.01 Receive Public Comment
Dr. Erickson reminded the audience that although the Board cannot engage with public commenters,
they are still listening to what commenters have to say. He then provided reasoning behind why
board members couldn’t respond, and reminded the audience of time limits for commenting.
Dr. Erickson read aloud a letter submitted by Jeff McKay, who wrote against vaccine mandates for
school staff, critical race theory and an administrative position for equity and inclusion.
Andrew Gustafson said the district still hasn’t apologized for hiring Dr. Bárbara del Mar Robles, the
former director of equity and inclusion who resigned in early November.
Dam Pham spoke against Gov. Jay Inslee’s COVID-19 vaccine mandates and mandatory testing for
unvaccinated school staff. He also said children rarely die from COVID-19.
Kent Selby spoke against potential COVID-19 vaccine mandates for children in the future.
Jennifer Sefzik read aloud Dam Pham’s response to his resignation letter, which included remarks
against the statewide school staff vaccine mandate.
Pat Roegele welcomed Mr. Childs and Ms. Uppiano to the school board, and expressed
disappointment that the board meeting was held only virtually due to flooding, rather than providing
an in-person option as well.
Paul Rosser spoke against mandatory COVID-19 vaccinations for staff and mandatory COVID-19
testing for unvaccinated staff with a religious or medical exemption.
Jeanne Rosser congratulated Mr. Childs and Ms. Uppiano for winning their school board elections
and asked the school board to reinstate all employees who were fired for not following the vaccine
mandate.
Natalie Chavez also read a letter written by Dam Pham, which discussed COVID-19 antibodies. Ms.
Chavez then added, in her own words, that she believes asymptomatic people can’t spread COVID19 and that natural immunity is better than a vaccine.
Mollie Gandy welcomed Mr. Childs and Ms. Uppiano to the school board. She also asked the district
to test vaccinated students along with unvaccinated students who participate in extracurricular
activities, so the system could be fairer.

Sarah Littrell said schools only care about COVID-19 now, and not mental health. She also spoke
against mask mandates for students and vaccine mandates for school staff.
Susan Prosser spoke against COVID-19 vaccine mandates for school staff.
Beth Perry said she wants accommodations for students who can’t wear masks all day long. She also
spoke against holding the meeting over Zoom, rather than in-person.
Dr. Erickson thanked the public commenters for voicing their opinions and invited them to stay for
the rest of the meeting.
5. FOCUS ON STUDENTS
5.01 Receive Information from Dr. Laura Lynn on the Since Time Immemorial Curriculum
Dr. Erickson introduced Dr. Lynn, from the state’s Office of Native Education, to the Board. Dr.
Lynn thanked the Board for their service, and briefly spoke about her own ancestry and
acknowledged that she was on the lands of the Chumash people on the central California coast.
Dr. Lynn then gave a presentation about the state’s Since Time Immemorial Curriculum, which she
explained is meant to teach students about the history and heritage of their local tribes. Dr. Lynn also
showed where people can find examples of the curriculum on the state education website, and
answered board members’ questions about the curriculum.
Dr. Lynn concluded her presentation by recommending that the school district continue their strong
partnership with the Lummi Nation, and to keep up professional learning for school staff.
Dr. Britt and Dr. Erickson thanked Dr. Lynn for her presentation.
5.02 Receive the Monitoring Report for Results Policy 2.6 (R-2.6) Arts
Dr. Erickson asked the Board if they’d agree to swap this item and item 6.01, so the representatives
from Northwest Leadership Associates wouldn’t have to wait any longer. The Board approved.
6. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
6.01 Focus Group Report from Northwest Leadership Associates
Wayne Robertson and Mark Venn from superintendent search firm Northwest Leadership Associates
introduced themselves and congratulated the new board members. Mr. Venn then provided a brief
refresher on his firm’s role in the search process.
Mr. Robertson and Mr. Venn gave the board a summary of focus group results – namely, what
respondents said were positives about Ferndale School District, what challenges the new
superintendent would face in Ferndale, and what attributes they wished to see in a new school leader.
Mr. Robertson said the next step was to take this focus group information and create an electronic
brochure for potential superintendent candidates. That brochure would be approved by Director of
Communications & Community Engagement Celina Rodriguez. Mr. Robertson said the school board
would get a chance to review it in early December.
Mr. Robertson added that the board should consider holding a work session meeting to come up with
a ballpark salary for the new superintendent. Dr. Erickson thanked the two search firm
representatives.

5.02 Receive the Monitoring Report for Results Policy 2.6 (R-2.6) Arts
Dr. Erickson reminded the Board that they typically receive one monitoring report each month,
discuss that report the next month, and approve it the month after that. He noted that three other
reports, scheduled to be discussed or approved, were postponed until the December board meeting, to
give new board members time to read them.
Dr. Britt told the Board that the R-2.6 report is available on BoardDocs. After some discussion, the
Board agreed to postpone discussing R-2.6 until the January meeting, but still receive the next report,
OE-2 Succession Planning, in December.
Ms. Uppiano asked how board members are meant to fill out the monitoring report responses, and
Ms. Cool gave her a brief description of that process.
6.02 Resolution 15-2021, Emergency Declaration – Atmospheric River Event
Mr. Deebach said this resolution is in response to the recent flooding, which damaged the CTE
Building at Ferndale High School. Maintenance crews were able to clean the building, but there was
moisture in the walls that would require more extensive clean-up.
This resolution would declare a state of emergency, which would allow the district to bypass bidding
policies that would delay the cleanup process by multiple weeks, Mr. Deebach said. The cost of the
cleanup would be mostly covered under insurance, and the district would file a claim with FEMA for
things that insurance didn’t cover, he said.
The Board and Mr. Deebach then had a discussion about mitigating impacts on future floods,
disruption to CTE Building classes during the cleanup and the bidding process.
Ms. Cool moved to adopt the resolution. The motion carried unanimously.
6.03 Report on Capital Projects Bond
Mr. Deebach gave the Board an update on bond-related projects. He noted that even though the
flooding resulted in some lost work days, and impacted the “topping out” beam-raising ceremony,
construction is still moving along at the new Ferndale High School site.
Dr. Erickson thanked Mr. Deebach for the update, as well as the weekly email bond updates.
7. SHARING [GC-7. E.]
7.01 Student Board Members
Mr. Nguyen welcomed Mr. Childs and Ms. Uppiano to the school board. He then asked Mr. Deebach
if there would still be school tomorrow, and Mr. Deebach said he couldn’t guarantee that, but he
hoped there would still be school.
Mr. Nguyen then spoke about how the high school leadership class was decorating for Christmas,
and about his trip to the Washington State School Directors’ Association (WSSDA) Conference in
mid-November. He said he heard from other boards that allowed student board members to have
advisory votes – these wouldn’t count towards actual decisions, but it would allow student voices to
be heard.
Mr. Nguyen also encouraged board members to go into schools and speak with students, as many
students don’t know them. A couple board members said they liked that idea, and Mr. Deebach said

if the Board is interested in reviving scheduled school visits, they could hold a work session to
discuss that.
Mr. Nguyen added that during opportunities for high school students to be unmasked outside, some
students skip school and don’t return.
7.02 Elected Board Members
Ms. Cool spoke about the WSSDA Conference and agreed with Mr. Nguyen that student board
members should get advisory votes. She also said she missed having the entire board at the WSSDA
Conference together.
Ms. Uppiano said she was sad to miss the Thursday portion of the WSSDA Conference. She also told
a story about her son’s trip home from the airport being interrupted by the flooding-related landslide
on Interstate 5.
Mr. Cool said he was inspired by the speakers at the WSSDA Conference.
Dr. Erickson agreed with Ms. Cool about missing the entire board at the WSSDA Conference.
7.03 Superintendent
Mr. Deebach said the district is required to advertise for both “pro” and “con” statements on the
February ballot for the replacement levy. He encouraged anyone who was interested in writing either
statement should reach out to him or Ms. Rodriguez.
7.04 Executive Administration
Ms. Larrabee welcomed the two new board members.
Dr. Britt told the new board members that in June, the Board submitted their academic and well-being
recovery plan to the state. At the December meeting, the Board will get more information on the
second phase of that plan, she said.
8. SUPERINTENDENT CONSENT AGENDA
8.01 All administrative matters delegated to the superintendent that are required to be approved by the
Board will be acted upon by the Board via the consent agenda.
Dr. Erickson gave a brief explanation of how the consent agendas work to the new board members.
Ms. Cool moved to accept both consent agendas as written. The motion carried unanimously.
8.02 Authorize Vouchers
Authorized Voucher Transmittals:
GENERAL FUND
Manual Warrant 283873 dated November 3, 2021, in the amount of $1,241.66, Vouchers 283874284010, 284039-284131 & 284149 in the amount of $754,335.33
GENERAL FUND PAYROLL
Warrants 477939-477961 dated October 29, 2021, in the amount of $1,736,836.02; and electronic
deposits in the amount of $3,725,631.80 for a total of $5,462,467.82
CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND

Vouchers 284011-284013 in the amount of $119,679.58
A.S.B. FUND
Vouchers 284014-284038 & 284132-284148 in the amount of $42,823.49
PPT FUND
No November warrants
TRANSPORTATION/VEHICLE FUND
No November warrants
8.03 Accept October 2021 Fund Balance Financial Statements
Accepted the 2021 Fund Balance Financial Statements.
8.04 Approve Hiring of Personnel
Approved the hiring of personnel.
8.05 Accept Resignations and Retirements
Accepted resignations and retirements.
8.06 Authorize Leave of Absences
Authorized leave of absences.
8.07 Authorize Personal Services and Supplemental Contracts
Authorized personal services and supplemental contracts for November 2021.
8.08 Authorize Agreement with Northwest Career & Technical Academy
Authorized agreement with Northwest Career & Technical Academy.
9. BOARD CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
9.01 The Board will use a consent agenda as a means to expedite the disposition of routine matters and
dispose of other items of business it chooses not to discuss.
Ms. Cool moved to approve both consent agendas as written. The motion carried unanimously.
9.02 Approve Minutes
Approved the minutes of the regular meeting on October 26.
9.03 Approve Interlocal Agreement with Nooksack Valley School District
Approved the Agreement for Interdistrict Cooperative Educational Services between Nooksack
Valley School District No. 506 and Ferndale School District No. 502.
9.04 Resolution 16-2021, Authorization of Warrant Signature
Adopted Resolution 16-2021, Authorization of Warrant Signature.
9.06 Review Board of Directors' Budget
Reviewed the year-to-date Board of Directors’ Budget as of October 31, 2021.
10. EXECUTIVE SESSION
10.01 Executive Session

Dr. Erickson briefly explained the rules of executive session, then adjourned the regular session
meeting at 10:13 p.m.
11. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
11.01 Termination of Employment
The Board returned to open session at 11:10 p.m. Dr. Erickson informed the audience that they are
discussing the potential termination of six employees. He then said it was important to reiterate their
executive session discussion with the public, so they can know the thinking behind their votes.
Dr. Erickson said this was a no-win situation without a black-or-white answer.
Ms. Cool said she knew the bus drivers up for termination had lots of experience, and she didn’t take
that lightly. However, she said she believes that keeping the workplace safe is important, and the
vaccine-or-exemption choice is in place to keep staff safe.
Ms. Uppiano said she believes that modeling character for students is also important, alongside
physical safety. She also said there was a fairness aspect to the issue, and wondered if every employee
could be tested, rather than only those who are unvaccinated with an exemption.
Dr. Erickson said he was confused why the state Legislature hasn’t created legislative laws to replace
Gov. Inslee’s emergency COVID-19 mandates.
Mr. Childs said there is no good option, but whatever is eventually decided will be in the best interest
of students.
Dr. Erickson added that although he appreciates those in the community who voiced their concerns
about vaccine mandates, the Board is meant to represent the entire community. He said less than 1%
of district employees had concerns or problems with the vaccination or exemption process, and the
loudest voice is not always the majority.
Ms. Cool moved to accept the termination suggestions. Before the vote took place, Ms. Uppiano
asked if each of the six employees would receive a separate vote, and Mr. Fairbairn said they can split
them out if the Board wishes.
Ms. Cool moved to accept the recommendation to terminate the contract of Karli Bergman. The
motion carried unanimously.
Ms. Cool moved to accept the recommendations to terminate the contracts of Rudy Chapin, Dam
Pham, Theresa Greenwood, Judith Adams and Kent Selby. The motion carried in a 2-1-1 vote, with
Dr. Erickson and Ms. Cool voting in favor, Ms. Uppiano voting against, and Mr. Childs abstaining.
Mr. Childs asked if those employees could be re-hired if state mandates and/or laws changed in the
future. Mr. Fairbairn said in that scenario, they would be eligible to re-apply.
Dr. Erickson told the audience to talk to their legislators if this decision upset them, because the
Board’s hands were tied. He then thanked Mr. Childs and Ms. Uppiano for attending their first
meeting.
12. ADJOURN

The meeting was adjourned at 11:34 PM.
____________________________________

_________________________________

School Board President

School Board Secretary

