Regular Meeting at 6:00 P.M. (Thursday, November 7, 2024)
Generated by Ryan Shannon on Friday, November 8, 2024
  Members present
Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias, Ryan Coulston
  Meeting called to order at 6:00 PM
  1. Opening Items
Procedural: A. Call Meeting to Order
  Procedural: B. Pledge of Allegiance
  Action, Minutes: C. Approval of Minutes from Regular Meeting - Oct 17, D. Approval of Minutes from Surplus Meeting - Oct 17, E. Approval of Minutes from Special Meeting - Oct 18, F. Approval of Minutes from Special Meeting - Oct 21
  Motion to approve the meeting minutes from the aforementioned meetings.
Motion by Paul Hill, second by Ryan Coulston.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias, Ryan Coulston
  Action: G. Changes or Additions to the Agenda
  No changes or additions
  Action: H. Adoption of Agenda
  Motion to adopt the agenda
Motion by Carla Urias, second by Amy Breitenstein.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias, Ryan Coulston
  2. Recognition
AESD Accreditation - MLHS & Vanguard: Michelle Price, NCESD to honor MLHS and Vanguard Academy for their school improvement process.  Both schools receivied full accreditation from 2024-2030. The accreditation is a six-year accreditation with a three-year review to review progress. 
  3. Consent Agenda
Action (Consent): A. Personnel
    Action (Consent): B. Accounts Payable/Payroll
Ryan Coulston inquired into a prior communication sent seeking additional information on vendors as it relates to recurring costs.  He asked if we had shopped the services to ensure the district is handling this appropriately. Mitch Thompson responded stating that for one of the contracts we are utilizing a state contract, therefore using the state’s approved vendor.  Thompson stated that the message is to get the better price.  Coulston followed up with a clarification question about the bid process.  Thompson detailed the three bid process and the dollar amount to do so. 
Kirryn Jensen asked if the district can look into the possibility of changing the policy to ensure vendors are following protocol. The district will look into the inquiry.
  Action (Consent): C. Surplus
  Action (Consent): D. Contracts
Paul Hill requested further clarification from Mitch Thompson. Mitch Thompson stated that the board is receiving a list of contracts prior to them being signed. This provides the board with knowledge of what the district is being obligated to. Thompson also explained that this keeps the public informed.
  Action (Consent): E. Donations
Action (Consent): F. Field Trip Requests
Action (Consent): G. Approval of Consent Agenda
  Motion to approve the entire consent agenda (items A-F).
Motion by Paul Hill, second by Amy Breitenstein.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias, Ryan Coulston
  4. Citizen Comments
    5. Superintendent Report
Carol Lewis informed the board about the efforts of the new Student Advisory Council.  The first meeting was held November 5th.  The council is made up of high school students from all district schools.  The first meeting brought together 12 members.  The students went through a process to determine what they had to celebrate, what worries they have, etc.  The students came out of the process wanting to reach out to more students to find more data and create contact with more students.  
  Robbie Mason to discuss the current status of elementary PE in the district. Ms. Mason relayed to the board the current programming of physical education in the elementary schools.  Data was presented to the time allocation and sections related to respective PE scheduling at various schools in the district. 
  Triscia Hochstatter gave an update on the graduation transitions. This year, the school district is expanding upon its graduation offerings this year with the inclusion of Vanguard Academy and Digital Learning Center.  MLHS graduation is on a Tuesday with Vanguard and Digital on a Wednesday.  The change to midweek is due to our total instructional day requirements with the state. Ms. Hochstatter’s presentation further explained our compliance with the state and the necessity to move the graduation ceremonies.
  Ms. Lewis gave a further explanation of the recent community survey.  She reported that the response total is now 690 with the data remaining similar to the first report on the survey from the last meeting in October. Ms. Lewis also gave a reminder that if a levy is ran and passed then collection would not begin until May 2026.  It is important for the district to manage its fund balance during this time.  Ms. Lewis discussed the rules that apply to employees during any election.
  Ms. Lewis welcomed Ryan Shannon to the district staff.  Shannon is the new Director of Public Relations for the district.
  6. Old Business
Action, A. Policy 2418 - Waiver of High School Graduation Credits
  Ms. Hochstatter described the Policy 2418, including the adjustment of the extra elective credits within the graduation requirements. Mr. Coulston asked for clarification that the change allows the district to waive them based on circumstances. Ms. Hochstatter verified that.
  Motion to adopt Policy 2418 as amended.
Motion by Carla Uriasl, second by Paul HIll.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias, Ryan Coulston
  Action, Discussion: B. Audit Discussion
  Mr. Hill gave a statement regarding the need for a forensic audit.  Mr. Hill’s statement made note of his desire to originally have a forensic audit conducted.  Due to current efforts within the district, Mr. Hill”s perspective has changed and he believes a forensic audit is no longer necessary.  Mr. Hill asked for the board to sign on to his statement.
  Motion to approve the message.
Vote to adopt the statement.
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias, Ryan Coulston 

  7. New Business
  Action, Discussion and Vote: A. Levy Resolution
  Ms. Lewis presented to a board about the levy resolution. The current levy collection will end at the end of 2024.  Without a new levy, reductions could be further submitted. Should the board approve a levy resolution, the new levy will be on the February 11, 2025 ballot.  The levy would be a four year levy at $1.50 per $1,000 of estimated assessed property value.  The money could be used for, but not limited to, instructional materials, special education, technology, essential teachers and staff, and extracurricular activities. Ms. Lewis reminded the board that collection of a new levy would not begin until May 2026.
  Mr. Coulston spoke to the district’s need to watch dollars as no levy collection will take place in 2025.
  Mr. Hill, Ms. Jensen, and Ms. Breitenstein commented in regards to levy passage and board confidence.
  Ms. Lewis stated that students need to be at the forethought of all planning.
  Motion to approve the levy resolution
Motion by Amy Breitenstein, seconded by Paul Hill
Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias, Ryan Coulston
  Action, B. Retirement of Policy 5211
  Ms. Lewis explained that 5211 was tied to old contract language.  That contract language no longer applies.
  Motion to retire Policy 5211
Motion by Paul Hill, seconded by Carla Urias
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias, Ryan Coulston 
  8. Information Items
Discussion: A. Finance Audit Committee Designees
Kirryn Jensen and Paul Hill will attend the next audit committee meeting.
  B. Financial Report/Budget Status
Mr. Thompson presented to the board that the books for 23-24 have been sent to the ESD for closure. He presented the district’s cash in the bank statement. Explanation was further detailed about grant claims. Capital projects are steady.  
  Mr. Coulston asked about the bond and the new elementary school planning.  Mr. Thompson stated that bonds are for buildings, and this is a decision of the facility advisory committee. If the decision at some point is to build the district’s 12th elementary school then bonds would need to be sold. 
  Mr. Thompson talked about our debt service fund which is servicing our outstanding bonds. 
  Mr. Thompson presented new data detailing year over year, revenues over expenditures.  
  Mr. Coulston asked for an explanation how September ended up in the negative. Mr. Thompson stated that it is typical that grants are not always approved by that time.    
  C. Student Representative Comments
No comment
  Information: D. Board Comments
Ms. Urias gave the MLHS football team a shoutout for making it playoffs. She added a callout for all MLHS fall sports.
Mr. Hill commented on the levy stating that it is going to be an enjoyable experience for the board to be involved this time around.

  9. Adjournment
Information: A. Adjournment Time 8:02pm
  Motion to adjourn the meeting
Motion by Paul Hill, second by Carla Urias.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias, Ryan Coulston
Meeting adjourned 8:02pm
10. Executive Session
Return time 8:45pm
Action, Superintendent: The board returned from executive session.  
Ms. Jensen read a brief statement regarding the performance of interim superintendent Carol Lewis.  Ms. Jensen called for a vote to remove the interim title of Ms. Lewis and appoint her as the full-time superintendent of the Moses Lake School District. 
  Motion to approve Carol Lewis as full-time Superintendent 
Motioned by Paul Hill, second by Carla Urias 
Motion passes
Yea: Paul HIll, Ryan Coulston, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias
   