Notes from Special Meeting 6:00 P.M. Community Forum (Thursday, March 21, 2024)
  1. Supporting the Whole Child
Discussion: A. Community Forum
On March 21st at 6:00 p.m. a Community Forum was held on Supporting the Whole Child.

The evening began with a welcome from Kirryn Jensen, Board Chair.

Amy Breitenstein, School Board Director, introduced the panelists as follows:
Mari Cardwell--Midway Elementary School Counselor
Enrique Tarver--Moses Lake High School Counselor
Nikki Mackey--Groff Elementary Principal
Abe Ramirez--Endeavor Middle School Principal
Matt Stevens--Vanguard Academy Principal

Ms. Cardwell introduced her therapy in training dog, Logan. She shared how she addresses bullying at Midway and noted how the other elementary schools handle bullying issues as well. Ms. Cardwell also shared a video, Dante's Story (focused on recognizing bullying), from the Second Step curriculum on Bullying.

Mr. Tarver spoke on the processes that are used when bullying occurs at the middle schools or high schools.  He mentioned the different curriculums used during advisory periods, etc. at the schools.

It was noted by both counselors and the administrators on the panel that there is no "cookie cutter" way to deal with the bullying issues that arise, but they work with the victims as well as the bullies. Each need is assessed individually and referrals are made to school counselors and community resources when necessary.

Carla Urias, School Board Vice-Chair, introduced the Table Talk time where guests were asked to discuss three questions. The guests also received a card to annotate their responses to the questions:
1. What have you learned about bullying prevention in our District?
2. What questions do you have a about bullying prevention?
3. What suggestions do you have for strengthening our Bullying Prevention program?

The community/family members who attended received a card with the above mentioned questions on the card. Following are the answers, questions, and suggestions given.
  Kevin Fuhr, School Board Director, read the responses and observations formulated by guests to the panel.

1. What have you learned about Bullying Prevention in our District?
There are programs implemented to help.
Social skills are being taught and a great deal of talking about bullying prevention is happening.
It doesn't appear that today's students are as the ones seen on the video shared by Ms. Cardwell.
Supposedly there is a "No Bullying" policy, but I still hear from students that bullying is happening.
Bullying is at a high priority level and many programs are implemented.
Two individuals mentioned they have not learned about bullying prevention, but one said they wish to learn.

2. Topics brought up from "what questions do you have a about Bullying prevention?" are listed below with answers given by the panelists.
Prevention in the schools for students--Staff is always working toward prevention and safety for all students by strategic placement of staff, security and SRO's, and building relationships, places to go for help, who to talk to and can they report in confidence. Education for bullying prevention and bullying identification is being taught with age appropriate curriculum at all grade levels, K-12.
Resources--Counselors and administrators have resources to share with those being bullied as well as those who are bullying. Those resources include counseling, groups, referrals, etc. within the schools as well as with community entities available specifically to youth and young adults. Students are encouraged to talk to a trusted adult for help. The STOPit app is an anonymous reporting tool and is monitored closely.
Follow through--Known situations are dealt with individually as there is not a "set way" to handle bullying. Protocol is followed and then modified as needed. Due to confidentiality laws, all parties are not privy to the discipline that happens, but administration/counselors are working with the individuals involved.
Parental Education--Parents are informed about bullying awareness and reporting with administrative contact, newsletters, website, community resources, etc. 
Staff involvement to better bullying situations--Administrators will continually put forth expectations to staff on bullying awareness, adaptability of mindset and helpfulness in bullying situations.
Concern for the bullied child--The bullied victim is cared for by counselors and staff, if they are able, according to the individual student's need. Resources are also shared if school staff is not identified to be the best to handle the student's situation.
When prevention doesn't work--It is unfortunate when prevention doesn't work. There are times that a change in the type of education being received needs to happen.
Changes since the Frontier shooting--A great deal more security, safety education and safety awareness are in our schools today.

3. What suggestions do you have for strengthening the Bullying Prevention Program?
Education on self-defense, personal protection, prevention, and strategies to de-escalate.
Programs and activities around diversifying groups being brought together to achieve common goals, and classroom projects.
More community forums and bringing in prevention to the schools.
Real bullying is hindering all other students at school from learning.
Have discipline plans in place and enforce them.
More severe consequences and accountability.
More playground supervisors.
Have someone from the school "shadow" the bully in question.
More punishment, suspension, no recess, expulsion.
Concern: 35% of Larson Elementary students feel safe and 25% of students feel they can talk to their teachers.

Paul Hill, School Board Director, thanked everyone for coming and dismissed the evening.
 