Regular Meeting 6:00 P.M. (Thursday, January 11, 2024)
  Members present
Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias
  Meeting called to order at 8:43 PM
1. Opening Items
Procedural: A. Call Meeting to Order
The meeting was called to order at 6:00 pm
  Procedural: B. Pledge of Allegiance
  Information: C. Correspondence and Additions
  Action: D. Adoption of Agenda
Item 8A--Policy 3230 Searches of Students and Student Privacy will be removed until a later meeting.
  Motion for adoption of the agenda with item 8A removed until a later meeting.
  Motion by Amy Breitenstein, second by Carla Urias.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

Action, Minutes: E. Approval of Minutes
Motion to approve the minutes from the December 14, 2023 meeting.
  Motion by Kevin Fuhr, second by Paul Hill.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

2. Recognition
Recognition: A. Staff/Student Recognition
Mr. Sabin took this opportunity to thank each of our Board members for the time and effort they put into serving on the Moses Lake School District Board of Directors.
Mr. Sabin noted that January is School Board Appreciation month.
Mr. Sabin shared with those in attendance the responsibilities and duties of those who serve as school board members.
Each Board member was presented with a small token of appreciation.
  3. School Sharing
Presentation: A. Migrant Parent Advisory Committee
Ms. Jensen introduced Karen Schotzko, Director of Multilingual and Migrant Education.
Ms. Schotzko recognized several of the Board members in the audience from the Parent Advisory Council.
Ms. Schotzko presented data from the program as well as opportunities and support the program provides.
The Board was encouraged to watch Every Row a Path, a great video that better describes the impact of the many facets of migrant education.
In answer to a question from Ms. Breitenstein, Ms. Schotzko stated general PAC meetings are held three times a year in November, March and May.
Mr. Fuhr asked if there is much of an increase or decrease in the population who benefits from this program. Ms. Schotzko stated the program typically vacillates between 350-425 students who are enrolled in the program.
Ms. Schotzko answered other questions from Mr. Hill and Ms. Urias concerning funding. The majority of funding is from the federal government.
Medical services were offered at a health fair in the spring in partnership with entities in the community, as well as several state organizations.

4. Consent Agenda
Action (Consent): A. Personnel
Resolution: Motion to accept the assignments as indicated.
  Motion by Paul Hill, second by Amy Breitenstein.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias
  Action (Consent): B. Accounts Payable/Payroll
Resolution: Motion to accept accounts payable/payroll report.
  Motion by Paul Hill, second by Amy Breitenstein.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

Action (Consent): C. Approval of Consent Agenda
Mr. Hill asked for clarification of the Accounts Payable line items to Basin Refrigeration. Mr. O'Neil gave some feedback and noted he would look into it further.
  Resolution: Motion to approve the consent agenda according to the recommended action for each item.
  Motion by Paul Hill, second by Amy Breitenstein.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

5. Required Approvals
Action (Required Approvals): A. ACDA All-Northwest Honor Choir
Resolution: Motion to approve the ACDA All-Northwest Honor Choir
  Motion by Paul Hill, second by Carla Urias.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias
  Action (Required Approvals): B. Prosser Wrestling Invitational
Resolution: Motion to approve the Prosser Wrestling Invitational Trip.
  Motion by Paul Hill, second by Carla Urias.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias
  Action (Required Approvals): C. Approval of Required Approvals
Moved to approve Required Approvals.
Resolution: Motion to approve the required approvals according to the recommended action for each item.
  Motion by Paul Hill, second by Carla Urias.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias
  6. Citizen Comments
Information: A. Public Comments on Agenda Items
  Information: B. Public Comments on Non-Agenda Items
  7. New Business
Presentation: A. Presentation of Strategic Plan Indicator of Success 3c
Ms. Lewis, Assistant Superintendent presented the Strategic Plan Indicator of Success 3c which is "Critical Thinking and Problem Solving".
The goal is that each of our students would be able to critically think and problem solve.
The specific indicator is one of three,  "Students use strategic tools and resources to analyze, reason, evaluate, communicate and problem solve to make decisions". Our district is working to have more than the one data source we currently have which is Center for Educational Effectiveness Survey.  This survey is given as a yearly survey for students, staff and families.  Ms. Lewis went on to share some of the data received.

8. Old Business
  9. Information Items
Information: A. Student Board Representatives Report
Elizabeth Diaz and Keera Michie, Student Board Representatives to the Board, expounded on their attached reports which are part of the agenda.
They highlighted quite a few amazing performances by different high school music programs and athletic teams.
The Board Reps noted first semester is coming to a close and prom preparation is happening and prom will be held April 20.
In honor of Martin Luther King Day, there were challenges to the students and staff to promote kindness and empathy.
  Information: B. Board Comments
Mr. Hill, Legislative Representative noted the legislature is four days into the session with over 350 bills to consider during the 60 day session.
Mr. Hill stated he had been contacted by several teachers and public citizens inquiring about the mandatory DEI (Diversity, Equity and Inclusion) training. Mr. Hill contacted Ms. Lewis to help him understand more clearly what this training is. Ms. Lewis noted the training is a state required training for all districts across Washington. A total of seven hours is the requirement every other year. On the opposite year, the focus is on student social and emotional well being. Our focus is to make sure every student is welcome, included and has access to learning. A staff concern, according to Mr. Hill, is what the repercussion would be, if they did not attend. Ms. Lewis noted it is a mandatory work day and if someone is not going to attend, they would need to take appropriate leave.
Ms. Urias asked where the training would be. Principals will be trained on Jan 23rd and they will share it with their staff in their buildings on the two upcoming early release days.
Mr. Fuhr asked if it was mandatory and Ms. Lewis state it is mandatory that the district provides it.
Mr. Fuhr noted the local chapter of the Martin Luther King Committee is hosting a MLK Celebration at 5:00 pm January 15th at the Civic Center and at 4:00 p.m. will do a Unity March downtown.
Ms. Breitenstein thanked the presenters and students for their presentations.
Ms. Urias noted several concerns she has been contacted about. One was concerning electrical problems at MLHS and the other concerning a lock issue at North Elementary.
Mr. O'Neil addressed the two electrical issues that happened right before the winter break. A PUD transformer had an issue that caused a report of a smoke smell. There was also a misdiagnosis of an ember being seen, but it was really the orange light on an extension cord. The PUD had the building back up and running later the same day.
There were also two instances where major sections of the high school went down electrically based on what is believed to be caused by large circuit breakers that are very old. Maintenance is going directly to the Semens manufacturer for diagnosing the issue.
The third issue is securing our 1950's elementary buildings. The fronts of these buildings don't have a locking system that can be manipulated by a secretary. Mr. O'Neil noted a new security upgrade is in the works and hopefully all the elementaries will benefit from the upgrade by the end of 2024-2025 first quarter.
Ms. Breitenstein asked if they are prioritized any specific way. Mr. O'Neil reiterated they will hopefully all be done by the end of first quarter in the fall.
Ms. Jensen thanked everyone for coming out this evening in the inclement weather.
  10. Executive Session
Action, Information: A. Executive Session
  11. Adjournment
Action, Procedural: A. Adjournment Time
The meeting was adjourned at 6:55 p.m.
  Motion to adjourn the meeting.
  Motion by Paul Hill, second by Kevin Fuhr.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias
       