Executive Session 5:30 P.M. Regular Meeting 6:00 P.M. (Thursday, January 25, 2024)
  Members present
Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias
  1. Opening Items
Procedural: A. Call Meeting to Order
The meeting was called to order at 5:30 p.m.
  2. Executive Session 5:30 p.m.
  Action: A. Executive Session--Superintendent Contract Extension
Ms. Jensen stated the Board would move into executive session for approximately 20 minutes for the purpose of reviewing the extension of the Superintendent's contract.
The Executive Session ended at 5:55 p.m. and the meeting reconvened.

Motion to approve the extension of the Superintendent's Contract.
  Motion by Kevin Fuhr, second by Kirryn Jensen.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

3. Opening Items--Continued
  Procedural: A. Pledge of Allegiance
  Information: B. Correspondence
No correspondence
  Action: C. Changes or Additions to the Agenda
Ms. Jensen noted the Budget Status Report will be moved to the next Board meeting.
  Action: D. Adoption of Agenda
Moved for adoption of the amended agenda.
  Motion by Paul Hill, second by Kevin Fuhr.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

Action, Minutes: E. Approval of Minutes
Motion to approve the January 11, 2024 minutes.
  Motion by Amy Breitenstein, second by Paul Hill.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

4. Recognition
Recognition: A. Board Certified Teachers
Ms. Jensen introduced Robbie Mason and Triscia Hochstatter, Directors of Elementary and Secondary Education, respectively.
Ms. Hochstatter and Ms. Mason recognized and honored our recently certified and recertified national board certified teachers.
These teachers are: Megan Cox, Anna Davis, Melody Johnson, Josie Kinney, Nicole Moore, Laura Taylor, Shelly Warkentin, Christi Young, Tonia Doyer, Baudilio Dominguez, Sharlene Hopkins, Joe Johnson, Sean Parkin, and Jessica Worley.
The directors shared the process to become a Board Certified Teacher.
The teachers are assessed on four components. 1) Content knowledge with three constructive response exercises. 2) Differentiation in instruction. Classroom based portfolio they design and implement to advance student learning. They submit work samples to show the progression of the learning from their efforts. 3) Teaching practice and learning environment. This requires videos in the classroom that showcase their teaching. 4) Effective and reflective practitioner. They provide a portfolio that provides evidence of how their assessments are used to effectively plan and impact student learning, and also demonstrates how they collaborate to advance student learning.
Congratulations and thanks were extended to each teacher for their efforts to empower every student to achieve, believe and contribute as compassionate citizens.
  5. School Sharing
Information
Ms. Jensen introduced Ms. Mackey, Groff Elementary Principal, who presented what is happening at Groff. 
Ms. Mackey noted that Groff's mission statement is "A Learning Community Dedicated to the Growth of Every Gator". 
She shared details about the school and many things they are involved in and working on.
Ms. Mackey introduced four student senators and a teacher who accompanied her to the meeting.
  6. Consent Agenda
Action (Consent): A. Personnel
Resolution: Moved to accept the assignments as indicated.
  Motion by Paul Hill, second by Carla Urias.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

Action (Consent): B. Accounts Payable/Payroll
Resolution: Moved to accept accounts payable/payroll report.
  Motion by Paul Hill, second by Carla Urias.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

Action (Consent): C. Approval of Consent Agenda
Resolution: Move to approve the consent agenda according to the recommended action for each item.
  Motion by Paul Hill, second by Carla Urias.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

7. Required Approvals
Action (Required Approvals): A. MLHS Surplus
Resolution: Move to approve the MLHS Surplus.
  Motion by Kevin Fuhr, second by Paul Hill.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias
  Action (Required Approvals): B. Western Washington University Band Festival Trip for MLHS
  Motion to approve the Western Washington University Band Festival Trip for MLHS.
  Motion by Kevin Fuhr, second by Paul Hill.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias
  Action (Required Approvals): C. National Cheer Competition
  Motion to approve the National Cheer Competition.
  Motion by Kevin Fuhr, second by Paul Hill.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias
  Action (Required Approvals): D. Approval of Required Approvals
Motion to approve the Required Approvals according to the recommended action for each item.
  Motion by Kevin Fuhr, second by Paul Hill.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

8. Citizen Comments
Information: A. Public Comments on Agenda Items
  Information: B. Public Comments on Non-Agenda Items
A written comment was submitted by Rabbit Howard-Stevens.   Exactly how many attempted shootings, how many assaulted kids, how many suicides will it take for you to do something helpful? Police involvement in schools hasn't been proven to be effective, fear-mongering and shame aren't either. And clearly ignoring it doesn't make it go away.  These kids deserve to be treated with compassion and empathy, to be seen as people, and have their physical and mental well-being matter in their schools. Kids who receive support, who have access to the tools to manage issues, and adults that understand *how* to respond when there's an issue, are what helps. Kids who have a safe place to learn, where threats of violence aren't a regular occurance, do better.  We cannot respond to angry kids with anger, and then expect their behavior to change. They're learning how to be people, for god's sake, give them some grace. Approach them as someone with a problem, not someone who *is* a problem. Actually work with experts in child development and psychology, not more cops. Train staff on ways to respond to peer-to-peer violence that don't make things worse for the victims. Don't give victims the same punishment as their bullies, and don't reward bullies for stopping for a week or two.  I recognize this is difficult, but as someone who went through this school system, I can't say that I trust my child's life and well-being actually matter to the district at large, and that's primarily because of the problems listed here. I know I'm not alone in this. Something needs to give, and we shouldn't be sitting around waiting for it to be the students in our care. It should be us, it should be the desire for things to get better overcoming the discomfort of change.
  Mariah Fernandez shared an incident that happened January 11th at Vanguard in which her son was involved during lunch.
Ms. Fernandez asked why security was not present during the incident and what is being done to protect our students when they are at school.
She expressed concern of why bullying continues to happen.
  9. New Business
Information: A. Budget Status Report (postponed until next meeting, see Item 3C)
  Information: B. Monitoring Committee
Carol Lewis introduced the Monitoring Committee, a joint committee that is called for in our collective bargaining agreement with our teachers association, MLEA. The committee is designed to bring together representatives from the district as well as MLEA to discuss safety issues, specifically safety issues that pertain to staff safety.  However, since we have students and staff together, it is really focused on overall safety. Ms. Lewis went on to introduce Thomas Jay, Nick Bontrager, Heather Whittall, Jodi Buldoc, and Ted Mack.
The purpose is to come together as a group and go over safety and particularly staff safety.
Ms. Bolduc noted the committee is coming together between MLEA and the district to have a more proactive approach. They are promoting training for specific staff groups as they want to be more proactive instead of reactive which they hope will lead to a safer environment for staff and students.
Thomas Jay shared that they have looked at a great amount of discipline data. Mr. Jay thanked Mr. Bontrager for compiling data and helping the team to bring a more clear focus to the safety needs of staff and students. The data noted when and where the majority of incidents were occurring at different schools.
Mr. Mack presented where this committee will go from here. They will continue to review the relevant data and find out if staff is trained well and placed in the most strategic areas to ensure safety in each building. They want to come back with examples of incidents being taken care of before they happened.
Ms. Lewis noted the committee has just started meeting this year and has already made recommendations for training of staff.
Skyward is our active tool for compiling referrals and incidents of discipline. OSPI has exclusionary discipline information.
Ms. Urias asked how many security officers are at the different schools. The committee will get back to the Board on the security officers and SROs.
Mr. Fuhr asked if security officers or SROs are part of this group. An SRO was recently invited, but was then called away. Mr. Fuhr recommended having the SRO sergeant involved so he could pass information along to all of the SROs.
There are different levels of discipline.
Levels 1-2 are typically taken care of in the classroom and levels 3-6 are referred to assistant principals and principals.
Consistency is a goal. PBIS (Positive Behavior Intervention and Support) re-training is being brought to all of our schools. PBIS focuses on preventing dangerous behavior.
Security and Safety is paramount.
Mr. Jensen asked if the committee has suggestions for prevention.  They noticed there are more incidents in certain classrooms, so paras who are trained are being put in those classrooms.

10. Old Business
Action: A. Policy 3230 Searches of Students and Student Privacy
Ms. Jensen noted this is the second reading of Policy 3230.
A large section being removed in Policy 3230 is actually part of the procedure.  The policy is being updated with language consistent with the law.
Mr. Hill had a question about the very last sentence of the policy. "All students have confidentiality rights in family planning or abortion records". Mr. Hill asked if this includes from their parents? Are parents advised? Ms. Lewis noted there are state laws that prevent sharing information with parents or anyone else, including medical providers, after students reach a certain age. We have to fall in line with medical providers and maintain the same level of confidentiality.
Mr. Hill stated he has a problem with excluding parents. He feels like parents need to know.
It was requested that more information be presented before this Policy is voted on.
  11. Information Items
Information: A. Student Board Representatives Report
Elizabeth Diaz--Key Club did a recent event where members invited friends and family to kick off the second semester.
There was a Blood Drive this week hosted by the Key Club.
Elizabeth also noted she went to a recent home wrestling match that was very fun and the Mavs beat Richland.
Keera Michie--Keera reported back with clarification on Unity, requested at our last meeting . The advisors told Keera 100 kindness cards were sent and many friendship bracelets were made. There was a rock, paper, scissors competition yesterday at MLHS. There will be a Band Festival this Saturday.
The Newspaper club has been doing a great job by presenting different types of information.
Keera noted it hasn't been easy to find local scholarship information this year. She suggested a homeroom activity so students could learn more about local scholarships.
  Information: B. Board Comments
Ms. Breitenstein asked who made the decision to utilize Frontier for a warming center. Mr. Sabin noted he wasn't sure who made the initial decision, but it provided a place of warmth and didn't interfere with the school day, so he agreed to it because it helped out our community. Ms. Breitenstein asked if he would foresee this happening in the future. Mr. Sabin noted if there was a need, yes, it would happen again.
Ms. Urias stated she has had multiple parents reach out concerning bullying at both the middle schools and high schools. She feels it is important to receive community input and figure out the best way to keep our students safe. Ms. Urias believes it would be good to have a community forum on the subject of bullying.
Mr. Hill shared several items concerning bills in the legislature.
Mr. Fuhr noted he will probably not be at the next Board meeting.
Ms. Jensen thanked those who were part of the citizen comments. Ms. Jensen stated it is important to her to hear from the community.
  12. Adjournment
Action, Procedural: A. Adjournment Time  7:06 pm
Motion to adjourn.
  Motion by Paul Hill, second by Kevin Fuhr.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

   