Regular Meeting 6:00 P.M. (Thursday, October 3, 2024)
    Members present
Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias, Ryan Coulston
  Meeting called to order at 6:00 PM
  1. Opening Items
Procedural: A. Call Meeting to Order
  Procedural: B. Pledge of Allegiance
    Action, Minutes: C. Approval of Minutes from Regular Meeting - Sept 19
    Action, Minutes: D. Approval of Minutes from Special Meeting - Sept 26
Motion to approve minutes from September 19 and September 26
Motion by Paul Hill, second by Carla Urias.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias, Ryan Coulston
Action: E. Changes or Additions to the Agenda
    Action: F. Adoption of Agenda
Motion to adopt the agenda
Motion by Amy Breitenstein, second by Paul Hill.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias, Ryan Coulston
    2. Recognition
  Ms. Lewis recognized the Nutrition Services and Custodial departments (represented by department managers, Mel Lopez and Rachel Shea). Ms. Lewis acknowledged the significant cuts these departments had due to the budget deficit, yet in spite of that these teams keep our schools clean and safe and deliver nutritious meals for all of our students. 
  3. Consent Agenda
Action (Consent): A. Personnel
Motion to approve the consent agenda.
Action (Consent): B. Accounts Payable/Payroll
Motion to approve the consent agenda.
  Action (Consent): C. Contracts
Motion to approve the consent agenda.
Action (Consent): D. Donations
Motion to approve the consent agenda.
Action (Consent): E. Field Trip Requests
Motion to approve the consent agenda.
Action (Consent): F. Approval of Consent Agenda
Motion to approve the consent agenda.
Motion by Carla Urias, second by Ryan Coulston.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias, Ryan Coulston
    4. Citizen Comments
    5. New Business
Mr. Hill explained that there are 43 positions from WSSDA, and each district selected their top 10 positions for lobbying. Then, the top ten are compiled across the state. Kirryn listed the 10 priorities for MLSD (in no specific order): 
Fiscal Nonrenewal Date
MSOC Funding
Support for Special Education Programs
Comprehensive School and Student Safety
Passage of School Finance Issues (Majority)
Local Control in School/District Improvement
Budget Stability
Assessed Valuation Basis for LEA
Digital Education Access
Transportation Funding
Ms. Lewis noted that ALL of the priorities are all important, but we were directed to select our district's top ten. 
  6. Old Business
  Discussion: A. Finance Audit Discussion
Mr. Coulston noted that when a questionnaire survey is distributed, we should have explanations of both sides of the decision, including that the audit would take at least a year, would include multiple employees, and that if the district could describe in detail that would be preferred.
Mr. Hill asked to table this discussion for another two weeks as part of an ongoing discussion.
  7. Information Items
  Discussion: A. Finance Audit Committee Designees
Kirryn and Carla elected to attend the Tuesday (week of meeting) internal committee meeting -15th Oct. Board members meet with the finance department to fince comb through fiance reports and ask questions.
  Information: B. Budget Status
Mr. Thompson presented the budget status, beginning with enrollment comparisons - both headcount and FTE numbers - across SpEd, running start, CBTech, Open Doors, etc. He also compared the General Fund Month-End cash comparison with the county reports.
He explained the three year comparison of revenues and expenditures. Year over year, the district was at 99%. 22/23 and 23/24 were overspent.
Ms. Urias noted that it was nice to see we are trending above the red line.
    Information, Presentation: C. Superintendent's Report
Ms. Lewis shared about a new, monthly event called "Sup's On", where she prepares a lunch for 5 community members. Then, those 5 members elect another 5 community members for the following month. She also reported about;
Student Advisory Group; a student group that works with the superintendent to get more student input.
Transportation; Our transportation department is working to address shortages and continue to offer safe transportation. The cancellations are not due to the budget situation, but a shortage of staff. We have the funding and vehicles, but not enough people to drive.
How the general fund balance reported to the school board should be about the same as the county treasurer report, which included examples from 2020 through 2024. Mr. Coulston asked how closely the reports should match and why these imbalances happen with the county. Mr. Thompson explained that our county doesn't get reports to us until the middle of the month doesn't allow us the time to make corrections with the county.
An overview of MLSD's Accrual accounting errors (small and large) totaling 9.9M. Ms. Lewis recognizes that the community would like to know exactly where those funds were spent, which she will present in a later report.
A comparison of the reported fund balance and county treasury report was presented, indicating the imbalance between the balances from 2021 to present day, including months where payroll dropped the cash balance into the negative (according to county treasure). This information was never discussed or presented to the board during those times. Carol clarified that it is not the county treasurer's job to make sure we are on track - it is our responsibility.
Mr. Coulston questioned the process of approving large purchase, and if the board can do anything if they dont' approve a purchase when the purchase has already been made by the time they're seeing it.
Thompson mentioned beginning a procurement card process (p-card) and the need to be prudent with our expenses.

    Information: D. Board Comments
• Mr. Hill gave kudos to Mr. Thompson - for uprooting to a new state, taking on a tough job, putting in the hours to get our community back on track.
• Ms. Breitenstein recognized our custodial and food service staff and her appreciation for their hard work and commitment.
• Ms. Urias thanked district staff for working as a team to improve the situation and is encouraged by the progress.
• Ms. Jensen indicated the high school Turning Point club is seeking a secretary
    Information: E. Board Representative Comments
• Andee noted that a career fair is happening at Big Bend for students including free lunches, busses and substitutes.
• Homecoming was stressful for ASB, especially considering the budget however many good memories were made and they had one of the best homecoming's she's ever been to in four years.
• Student security is questionable - guests are able to walk into schools and wander, yet some students are getting locked out of their classrooms. She noted security should be securing the building, not securing attendance.
• Carol noted she would report back on the security and attendance issues Andee brought to light after consulting with the high school administration.
• Javier noted an upcoming 1st grade farm day as an exciting tradition for Moses Lake.
• Ms. Breitenstein proposed moving the student comments to before the board's comments.
    8. Executive Session
  Discussion: A. Executive Session to discuss potential litigation with potential action to follow
7:37 pm - The board entered the executive session
8:13 pm - resumed from executive session

Ms. Breitenstein stated, As the public knows we are in receipt of a report from the state auditors office that details potential criminal acts of Mr. Meek. It has become apparent that the MLPD is not going to investigate the matter and I would like to make a motion that we request the MLPD forward the matter to another agency for review.
  Action: Executive Session
Motion to request the Moses Lake Police Department forward an investigation of potential criminal acts of Mr. Meek to another agency for review.
Motion by Amy Breitenstein, second by Paul Hill.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias, Ryan Coulston
  9. Adjournment
  Information: A. Adjournment Time
8:15 pm - Adjourned
 