Special Meeting (Thursday, May 30, 2024)
  Members present
Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias
  Meeting called to order at 6:00 PM
1. Opening Items
Procedural: A. Call Meeting to Order
  Procedural: B. Pledge of Allegiance
  2. New Business
Action: A. Resolution 2024-09 Authorization of Interfund Loan from Capital Projects Fund to General Fund
Ms. Jensen noted the Board would be discussing Resolution b2024-09 Authorization of Interfund Loan from Capital Projects Fund to General Fund.
Carol Lewis, acting superintendent, introduced Trisha Shock and Bill Eagle, partners from the ESD, to help answer questions.
Ms. Lewis noted the resolution became necessary when we received some financial information that the district would likely be short in the General Fund, once accounts payable and payroll were made, May 31, 2024.
One of the ways to avoid a negative fund balance, which seems most economical, is to borrow from ourselves from the Capital Projects Fund that currently has approximately $9,000,000. This resolution would allow us to do that.
The stipulation is we would have 24 months to pay the amount back. The funding for paying the amount back would be including, but not limited to Washington apportionment, taxes collected for any levies that we have currently or in the future within that two year period. She noted the district would immediately use that money to pay back the interfund loan. The resolution also stipulates that no current capital projects would be harmed.
Ms. Lewis went through the capital projects with Brian Sewell who manages those and he agreed there would be no harming of any project in place.
The proposed resolution is available as an attachment to the agenda for this meeting.
The resolution would authorize Ms. Lewis or a designee, given the ever changing situation, to authorize an amount.  Prior to making a transfer, it would be reviewed with the Board and the rationale would be stated at that time.
The team was hoped to have a specific amount in the resolution, but felt it was best to give an estimated amount.
Trisha Schock presented detailed numbers about the general fund and monthly obligations.
The ESD partners are working to claim grant funds, pay bills, etc. so they are able to begin working on the 2024-2025 budget that is due in July.
There was a great deal of discussion concerning the finances, the proposed resolution and what MLSD finances will look like moving forward.
Ms. Lewis noted she would not authorize any more than $1.5 million (the needed amount identified by Ms. Schock) to be transferred without discussing it with the Board.

Moved to approve Resolution 2024-09 Authorization of Interfund Loan from Capital Projects Fund to General Fund.
The resolution approval was done by a unanimous roll call vote.
  Motion by Amy Breitenstein, second by Carla Urias.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

3. Adjournment
Information: A. Adjournment Time
The meeting was adjourned at 6:58 p.m.
 