Regular Meeting 6:00 P.M. (Thursday, May 23, 2024)
  Members present
Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias
  1. Opening Items
Procedural: A. Call Meeting to Order
The meeting was called to order at 6:00 p.m.
  Procedural: B. Pledge of Allegiance
  Action, Minutes: C. Approval of Minutes 5/7/24
Moved to approve the May 7, 2024 minutes.
  Motion by Carla Urias, second by Amy Breitenstein.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

Action, Minutes: D. Approval of Minutes 5/9/24
Move to approve the May 9, 2024 Regular Board Meeting Minutes.
  Motion by Paul Hill, second by Carla Urias.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

Action, Minutes: E. Approval of Minutes 5/11/24
  Moved to approve the special meeting minutes from May 11, 2024
  Motion by Amy Breitenstein, second by Paul Hill.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

Action, Minutes: F. Approval of Minutes 5/14/24
  Move to approve the May 14, 2024 special meeting minutes.
  Motion by Paul Hill, second by Carla Urias.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

Action: G. Changes or Additions to the Agenda
Ms. Jensen noted there has been a need to give Ms. Lewis, Acting Superintendent, the authority to oversee all functions in the district. A contract has been drawn up for Ms. Lewis. Ms. Jensen went on to note that this contract has no monetary value attached to it as Ms. Lewis is serving the district graciously.

Moved to approve the contract given to Ms. Lewis and to grant her authority to oversee all functions of the school district.
  Motion by Carla Urias, second by Amy Breitenstein.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

Action: H. Adoption of Agenda
Moved for adoption of the amended agenda.
  Motion by Paul Hill, second by Carla Urias.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

2. Recognition
Recognition: A. Our Student Board Representatives
The 23-24 Student Board Representatives, Keera Michie and Elizabeth Diaz, were thanked for their year of service to the student communities of Moses Lake School District.
  3. School Sharing
Presentation: A. Jennifer Gonzales, Longview Elementary
Jennifer Gonzalez, Principal of Longview Elementary, joined by the fifth grade leaders and three teachers shared their excitement and passion for Longview Elementary.
  Presentation: B. Kristi Bateman, Lakeview Elementary
Kristi Bateman, Principal of Lakeview Elementary presented how Lakeview has gone back to the basics. Ms. Bateman, Ms. Hoffer, and several third graders noted the great work happening at Lakeview.
  4. Consent Agenda
Action (Consent): A. Personnel
Resolution: Moved to accept the assignments as indicated.
  Motion by Carla Urias, second by Paul Hill.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

Action (Consent): B. Accounts Payable/Payroll
Resolution: Moved to accept accounts payable/payroll report.
  Motion by Carla Urias, second by Paul Hill.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

Action (Consent): C. Approval of Consent Agenda
Resolution: Move to approve the consent agenda according to the recommended action for each item.
  Motion by Carla Urias, second by Paul Hill.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

5. Required Approvals
Action (Required Approvals): A. GEAR Up WSU for MLHS Ambassador Leadership Training, Pullman WA
  Action (Required Approvals): B. End of Year Community Building Experience funded by Band Boosters
  Action (Required Approvals): C. Regional Ambassador Training @ CWU MLHS & Vanguard
  Action (Required Approvals): D. Endeavor Leadership Trip
  Action (Required Approvals): E. Approval of Highly Capable Plan
  Action (Required Approvals): F. Approval of Required Approvals
Ms. Jensen asked if the band trip, which is 5B, is funded for substitutes. Ms. Hochstatter stated the trip is on a Saturday and completely funded by Band Boosters.
She also asked about 5D. Ms. Hochstatter noted the teacher has taken a personal leave day and it is covered completely by ASB Funds.
  Moved to approve the Required Approvals for the recommended action for each item which included Items 5 A-F.
  Motion by Paul Hill, second by Amy Breitenstein.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

6. Citizen Comments
Information: A. Public Comments on Agenda Items
  Information: B. Public Comments on Non-Agenda Items
Many written comments included in the agenda for this meeting.
Dulcinea Villarreal--Extracurricular Activities.
Noah Bingham--Extracurricular Activities.
Jodi O'Shea--Connections, activities, mental health support.
Heather Whittall--Financial--I am in support of our acting superintendent. We need to vote for our kids. It is shameful to those who didn't vote.
Liam O'Shea--Track and Cross country Running changed me. I wouldn't have the social confidence to speak if it weren't for my sports. It is important to keep all the levels of sports.
Harrison Holt--Extracurricular Activities.
Morgan Holt--Extracurricular Activities.
Matt Paluch--Moses Lake Community Coalition. Preschool and next year's 8th graders. Please prioritize maintaining the preschool.
Camryn Holterhoff--Extracurricular Activities.
Liz Pray--Nursing department hit hard. Increase safety and decrease liability.
Daniel Bushnell--ML Community Coalition as a student representative. Sports and clubs are a good place for students to engage instead of addictive drugs.
Raegen Hofheins--ASB President, Extracurricular activities.
Kyrissa Morigeau--Support of a non renewed teacher.
Cy Christensen--Please keep cross country.
James Getzinger--Finances.
Ryan Coulston--Appreciative of those who have spoken. Will help as a volunteer.
Pablo Hernandez--Band director at MLHS to speak for the fine arts education. Music communicates and connects people across cultures.
Marissa Bischoff--MLHS Graduate.
Bryce Humphreys--Concern for the students and families as well as staff and their families. Support for the Cabinet. Disappointment that Monty Sabin was put on administrative leave by the Board. I implore the Board to educate themselves to support the district.
Megan Watson--Representative of Moses Lake Community Coalition.
  7. New Business
Action: A. Resolution 2024-08 WIAA
Ms. Lewis noted Resolution 2024-08 from the WIAA would continue our membership for middle school and high school sports.
Mr. Hill stated this doesn't have to be signed until December 1st. He would like to see this tabled until after the special work session scheduled for tomorrow.
Resolution 2024-08 will be presented again for approval at the special meeting June 13th.
  Presentation: B. 3a--Rigorous instruction occurs in all educational settings
Anna Griffith, Instructional Coach, shared the work MLSD has done with Professional Learning Communities (PLC's), the benefits and where the District is headed.
Ms. Griffith noted this is a three year program and MLSD has completed year one. Years two and three of the three year program were purchased upfront so there is no additional charge to the company to be part of the National PLC Project.
  Presentation: C. Budget Update
Carol Lewis, Acting Superintendent, shared a budget update. Ms. Lewis shared we will frequently talk at meetings about school finance for our Board and community.
Ms. Lewis noted that a school budget differs from a household budget in the fact that the five funds of money a school district has cannot be co-mingled. The funds are: Capital Projects Fund, General Fund, ASB Fund, Transportation/Vehicle Fund, and Debt Service Fund.
Ms. Lewis shared what each fund is used for as well as information given to the district from the County Treasurer's Office as of April 30th.
In the bargaining agreement with MLEA class size limits are set forth.
The partners from the ESD are working on doing grant claims before deadlines so we are back on track.
Ms. Urias asked how many administrators it takes to run a district the size of MLSD. Ms. Lewis explained that you need enough people in the spots to do the jobs that are required, i.e. teaching and learning, finance, etc. Ms. Urias also asked for a list of administrators and what their duties entail.
  Action, Information: D. Policy 4130 Title 1 Parental Involvement
Ms. Mason shared Policy 4130. We continue to review Policies and procedures. When we went through CPR last year it showed that we needed to go through Parental Involvement. All schools that receive these federal dollars have a responsibility to partner with parents.
There were so many changes and the current policy was very brief. A major overhaul was done of this policy so we are just presenting it with the changes.
It was asked that revisions be brought to the Board at the time of the second reading.
  Action, Discussion: E. Special Meeting Proposal
Carol Lewis noted that our policy states that we will have one meeting during the month of June and it is felt that we should have two meetings in June. Ms. Lewis asked that the Board approve having an additional meeting in June, held on Thursday, June 13, 2024.
A decision about an additional meeting in July will be discussed at a later date.
  Move to approve a special meeting Thursday, June 13, 2024.
  Motion by Amy Breitenstein, second by Paul Hill.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias
  8. Old Business
Action: A. Policy 2020 Course Design Selection and Adoption of Instructional Materials
Ms. Lewis noted this was the policy that was revised to meet the request of Paul Hill concerning an anti-pornography resolution. It was decided at the wording is better in policy and procedure.
Included today is a copy of the procedure as well for both policy and procedure 2020 and 2021.
Ms. Mason presented some of the compilation she researched for an age appropriate guidelines definition. If you would like to add it to the procedure, we would be the first district to actually define "age appropriate".
Ms. Jensen noted she would like more time to look at this and to move this to the next meeting. It will be decided at a later date if there will be verbiage added to the procedure.

Action: B. Policy 2021 Library Information and Technology Programs
Please see notes on Item 8A as they apply to both Policy 2020 and 2021.
  9. Information Items
Information: A. Student Board Representatives Report
Elizabeth Diaz noted her thank you for a good year. She mentioned the great opportunity of Solar Car Races for not only fifth graders, but also for the several high school classes who volunteered to help at the car races. Miss Diaz went on to express her disappointment with the school district and community concerning the levy and the decisions being made. Students have not been asked for their opinions. A 28% of voter turnout is shameful. All voices count.
Keera Michie noted she was disappointed after the last Board meeting with the layoffs. If felt like my voice didn't matter. The last two weeks, as students at the high school prepared for this meeting, I realized our voices do matter. The students focused on the positive future we will have. Keera spoke about band and her teacher Ms. Lindemeier. She mentioned many other provisional teachers who have made such a difference in the schools and our community. She implored the Board members to get to know those they represent and to listen to those they serve.
  Information: B. Board Comments
Each board member expressed their thanks for those who came to the meeting this evening, the student Board reps for their service and those who worked to have the Solar Car Races come to fruition this year.
  10. Executive Session
Discussion: A. Executive Session--No action to follow
The Board moved to Executive session for approximately 30 minutes to discuss the performance of a public employee without action at 8:43 p.m.
  11. Adjournment
Action, Procedural: A. Adjournment Time
The Board reconvened and adjourned at 9:25 p.m.
 