Notes from Special Meeting 6:00 P.M. Levy Community Forum (Monday, March 25, 2024)
  1. Levy Forum
Discussion: A. Community Forum
Monty Sabin, Superintendent, welcomed everyone in attendance and thanked them for coming to this levy presentation.   

Moses Lake School District is a large district with 20+ schools, over 400 square miles, 8,700 students and approximately 1,200 professionals and 20,000 electronic devices. Over half of the staff are classified and everyone plays a role to create a successful environment for students.  The district provides many opportunities for the students, however the state only funds a portion of the actual cost to operate our schools.  Levies fund learning and districts rely on voter-approved levies to bridge the funding gap to ensure our students and schools have the staffing, resources, programs and tools they need.

Robbie Mason, Executive Director of Elementary Education, stated she can attest to the incredible support we have had from our community throughout the many years she has been employed in this district. We are funded partially with state and federal funding, but we rely heavily on local, voter approved levy funding from our voters to bridge the gap. It is believed that the programs and opportunities in place are crucial for the well-being of all students.  After the levy failure in February, the decision was made to run the levy again in April, to hopefully avoid making cuts to staffing and programs.  Due to historical past support, we felt it necessary to find out from our community what is missing, what questions people have, and what caused the levy to fail.  In order to obtain that information, a survey was recently sent out seeking information concerning why the levy did not pass and so we could respond to the unanswered questions.
  Carol Lewis, Assistant Superintendent, noted that MLSD is appreciative of those who filled out the survey.  Ms. Lewis shared a pie chart graph indicating how information is received by those who took the survey. Social Media, School or District Newsletters and U.S. mail were among the top avenues people received information. Respondents indicated they felt most informed about knowing the difference between a bond and a levy, how schools are funded, the cost of the local levy for Moses Lake property owners, and what the levy renewal funds for students and schools. People felt less informed about what cuts would need to be made if the levy were to fail, the number of staff funded through the levy and the health and safety measures funded by the levy. The following information will highlight how levy money touches every aspect of schools.
 
  

Everything on this list is important. According to the survey, foremost in the minds of our community is funding positions--security staff, school resource officers, nurses, counselors, librarians. 
 


Feedback from the survey will be used to ensure we are providing clear communication in the top channels mentioned by respondents. We will endeavor to provide information about the items people felt less informed about. The hope is to further explain levy funding details in ways families, staff and community members indicated they like to receive the information. The district leadership will thoughtfully read through the survey comments provided by our families, staff, and community about how to improve our communications concerning the levy. A summary of the report will be provided on the school district website at mlsd161.org/levy/.  

Jeremy O'Neil, Chief Operations Officer, noted the levy renewal is a comprehensive funding source that benefits each student and their family.  The levy monies would continue funding for essential staff, school safety and maintenance, and student opportunities and programs. Mr. O'Neil further broke down the data received to show exactly what that means for school safety, maintenance, technology, staff, transportation for regular education, special education and pre-school transportation, programs and opportunities for students, etc.  He noted the strong technology program in our district and the importance of keeping that program running. Our infrastructure both rolling (transportation) and buildings needs to continue to be maintained.  We live in a vibrant, very fulfilling community and members may not have a connection student-wise, but they benefit from the use of our facilities in other ways.

Mr. O'Neil shared why the two year levy was being run at $2.00 per $1,000 assessed valuation and what that means to individuals. He reminded those in attendance that this is not a new levy, but a replacement levy. Basically the difference for a person with a $300,000 home would be approximately $150 a year which equates to $12.50 per month more than they are currently paying in school levy tax.  Levies are static, generally speaking, and when approved can only go down.  Levies are capped and we are projecting impacts to our current revenue stream that we are hoping to make up for with this $0.50 increase.  There has been a decline in regionalization (a funding to Moses Lake in the past).  Regionalization will go to zero next year.  When you approve a levy, you open yourself up for state match.  State match has several variables in it and the ones we are monitoring show a decline of 2.9M.  Inflation also plays a role in our "why".

 

Mr. Sabin shared the following slide which shows the last few years of the combined tax rate with the bond (blue) and the levy (yellow).  The model changed at the state level a few years ago and they adjusted how they collect the tax.  Since then our combined tax rate has been relatively flat and our hope is to maintain a predictable, constant tax rate for the community so there are no surprises. Someday when we go for another bond measure, we hope to keep the combined tax rate fairly flat. This gives you an idea of the past and a proposal of the future.  Other districts will run a transportation, capital projects, or technology levy.  Moses Lake doesn't have additional levies, we pay for everything out of this levy.  We feel we are being good stewards of the district's money.   There is a funding differential between what the state provides and what we need.  This following illustration will show the allocation from the state, what we staff and the shortfall. This is a sampling that gives an idea.  
 

  What does this levy fund? Extracurricular activities, staff positions, staff extra duty pay, curriculum adoption, support positions, and a plethora of other things are funded with levy dollars.  Levy dollars are used to maintain the buildings the community has provided us, Communities in Schools and Boys and Girls Club.  
 


There is a Levy page at www.mlsd161.org/levy/ that will help to answer other questions.

A community member asked if the $0.50 per $1,000 assessed valuation increase included a COLA (cost of living adjustment). Mr. Sabin noted that the upcoming IPD (implicit priced deflator) increase is 3.7%  These levy dollars come into play in the overall budget.  The community member also asked if tech support mentioned is to fix devices or does it include teaching technology as well. She believes our student need to be well educated in the field of technology.  Levy money funds many tech needs throughout the district. Security cameras, communication, bus technology, security in buildings, fire alarms, and phones are parts of the technology funded.  Tech classes are funded through other areas.

A member of Citizens to Pass the Levy stated she would like the public to understand that levies have a cap of what can be collected, $15,000,000 in 2025 and $18,000,000 the next year.

A MLSD staff member stated if the levy doesn't pass, it changes education in the Moses Lake School District. SROs, the Tech Department, Transportation, music programs and sports will all be very different. She went on to ask what the extra duty time sheets entailed as she was under the impression the district didn't use those any longer.  It was noted that after school tutoring, summer school, additional hourly work, committee work etc. are included in that item.  This member went on to ask what things would be cut in the administration office should the levy not pass.

Another community member noted the state only funds one psychologist, but the district employs quite a few more which is a tremendous benefit to the community.  
  One community member asked if the district knew of a reason the levy failed. Mr. Sabin noted that many people did not cast a vote, yet it is hoped that we will garner more yes votes in the April election. Some may be distressed with the school district because of how the last bond monies were handled, however neither the administration team nor Board members were in their current positions when that occurred.  We are hopeful that the community are seeing our consistency and reliable behavior.  There has also been inflation and that is difficult for families, budgets and those on fixed incomes.  There seem to be rumors of things happening or not happening in the district and at times people believe the rumors.  The current admin team and Board are hopeful to change minds concerning the levy.

We are seeing healthy growth in our district. The district needs to prepare and receive those new families with the high level things the levy will provide.  

It is important to reiterate to people the actual amounts that were collected and to show the Financial Impact slide to our community.

A music teacher in the district stated she was able recently to buy supplies to fix instruments that have been used faithfully over the last 12 years by approximately 450 students per year. Without the levy money, students would be unable to access or use these worn instruments.

Carol Lewis referred back to a couple of things that came up earlier in the meeting which were important instruction on cyber security and provision for mental health needs.  School counselors are significantly funded through levy dollars and they address both mental health and cyber security on a daily basis with students. Counselors are partially funded through levy money.

Ballots will be mailed April 5th and election day is April 23rd.



   