Special Work Session 6:30 P.M. (Tuesday, May 7, 2024)
  Members present
Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen by phone, Amy Breitenstein arrived after roll call, Carla Urias
  1. Opening Items
Procedural: A. Call Meeting to Order
  Procedural: B. Pledge of Allegiance
  2. Information Items
Information: A. Budget Study Session
Mr. Sabin presented the Resolution 2024-05 REDUCED EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM FOR 2024-2025 DRAFT for the Board to review and ask questions.  He explained the Resolution is required for reducing activities and staff for the upcoming school year.  Mr. Sabin introduced Exhibit A with a dollar amount of $20,000,00 that the District needs to reduce by and the categories where these reductions will occur.
The categories on Exhibit A are very similar to the levy information that we shared with the public. These are funded by the levy.
                 The levy-funded categories are as follows:
                        Extra-Curricular Activities
                        Classified/Certificated/Administrative/Support/Operations Positions
                        Staff Extra Duty Pay
                        Curriculum Adoption
                        Technology Upgrades/Replacements
                        Maintenance/Custodial/Grounds Projects
                        School Resource Officers
                        Administrative Office Positions
                        Community Programs
                        Facility Usage
                        Career and College Readiness Programs
                        Vehicle Fleet Replacements
                        Professional Development
                        Travel
                        Supplies/Equipment
The total dollar amount that has been determined which we need to target for reductions is $20,000,000.00, it may be less. The goal is that we won't have to cut by $20,000,000.00, but it may still be approaching that number. The same thought process is used when talking about reduction in force (RIF) for staff. Initially we send notices to more staff than we think will ultimately be reduced so we are able to have flexibility until we can bring people back in the area they are able to teach. This is a summary of the resolution. The Board needs to take action this week at the Board meeting in order for us to be able to move forward in these reductions. RIF notices must be issued to staff by May 15th.
Questions presented at the work session by Board members are as follows:
 If we are going to need to cut School Resource Officers (SROs), is there a specific number already allocated? Mr. Sabin noted we have not set a given FTE to School Resource Officers, that is just one category the levy funds. Currently the District is funded for just over one SRO, but employs four SROs. Ms. Jensen noted she would like to have staff look into making a shift and switching to a private security company to see if that may save the district money. Ms. Jensen stated she does not want to get rid of any SROs.
Ms. Jensen did not originally have a copy of Exhibit A and asked if there were estimated reductions on the categories mentioned.  Mr. Sabin noted the $20,000,000 represents the total staff, programs, supplies and the other things listed on Exhibit A. The ultimate goal is to maintain as many staff positions as we can. He noted the situation has to be viewed in various ways to make the best decision and retain as much staff as possible. At this point there are not specifics for each category.
Ms. Jensen asked if the Board was going to be a part of the decisions or had the decisions already been made by Cabinet.  No decisions have been made, but there are seniority staff lists being worked from.
Ms. Breitenstein asked if the number of $20,000,000 could be negotiated and Mr. Sabin stated this is the number the District has determined needs to be aimed for from the work that has already been done.
Mr. Fuhr asked if the unions had seniority lists already established and it was confirmed by Ms. Musso, Director of Human Resources, confirmed the lists are in place.
Ms. Urias questioned if it all had to be taken care of by May 15th and Mr. Sabin explained that in order to issue RIF notices to staff, those need to happen before May 15th. Ms. Breitenstein asked why a blanket statement couldn't be put out to all staff?  However, Ms. Jensen noted that if we notified everyone in the District, everyone would be laid off and that cannot happen. Specific notices are required.
Ms. Breitenstein asked when this needs to be accomplished. Mr. Sabin noted it will need to be completed before the budget is adopted. The District will work through the associations and with operations to most effectively reduce. There will also be further study sessions to provide updates and gather input from the Board. A draft budget is brought to the Board in July and the final approval is in August.
Ms. Jensen asked Mr. Sabin to expound on the facilities usage. Mr. Sabin stated in the levy information, the pool and theater were specifically pointed out, not the gyms or fields. The levy funds do allow community access and use of those facilities. Again, by stating this on the list it allows for reductions in that area. Ms. Breitenstein asked if we gain any revenue from the usage of facilities. Mr. Sabin explained we do charge a fee that doesn't cover the full cost of the facility. Levy funds cover a great deal of it and combined with the usage fee does help.
Ms. Urias asked who the District talks to about the changes we are going through. Mr. Sabin explained the district has three different groups, classified, certificated and the principals group. There will be conversations with them about where we can reduce.  Another way is gathering input from staff. Mr. Sandhop, the athletic director, is surveying staff to gather ideas to reduce spending and activities. We will gather input and have discussions. Mr. O'Neil will have discussions with his departments about what it will look like if we don't do any projects around the district and only do repairs as the need arises. It is multi-faceted in working with our various departments, district staff and associations to look at ways we can reduce spending and save money. It is truly a team effort.
Mr. Fuhr asked if the district has considered looking into payouts for early retirement. Is that possible for contracts. Ms. Musso noted we would have to consult our attorney as it is a gift of public funds to give money for unworked hours. He noted he had just researched it for the city so it is possible. There are specific guidelines and you must have specific policies in place. Perhaps this is an area we could look into.
 Ms. Jensen asked how the District came to the this number, $20,000,000? Mr. Sabin noted there is a process. There is a form you put in your numbers for the coming year.  You enter revenue, expenses, projected enrollment, etc. into the form and it generates what your apportionment will look like for the year. Looking at the amount of money, the district is losing for not having the levy. Again, quite a bit of work has been done has been done within the district and with the ESD.  On Exhibit A Levy Failure, Accounting Errors, and Inflationary Factors are indicative of the shortfall. There were some accounting errors that occurred that resulted in this number being larger than we originally expected. The process goes through what your revenue and expenses will be and then the differential. The $20,000,000 number seems a safe number to pursue. Again, it is possible that it would be less, but as of today, we aren't certain exactly how much we need to reduce by, but it will be close to that number.
Ms. Jensen asked what operations positions included. Mr. O'Neil noted that typically categories that fall under operations are transportation, IT, custodial, maintenance, finance and food service.
For the last three years, what has enrollment looked like and what is the anticipation for next year? Mr. O'Neil noted it appears we are experiencing stagnation. Post COVID we had strong secondary enrollment that produced numbers more favorable than precovid last year. It has taken a longer time for elementary to recover. We are roughly at 8,600. Budget is built on 8,800. When looking at the indicators in our community, Moses Lake is poised for growth, but that hasn't spiked or trended yet. The reality, this school year, is that it is flat and missing target by 200. Mr. Fuhr stated the industries coming in have already hired close to 90% their staff.
Ms. Jensen asked how our budget issues are going to affect the new project in Mae Valley? Mr. Sabin noted that the project will be funded through bond dollars and can go forward despite our current financial situation. Ms. Jensen went on to ask if that school can be 100% funded by bond dollars inside and out to allow it to run. Mr. Sabin noted it has not gone out to bid yet. T are still waiting for the final process of acquiring the land and then we will go out to bid and know the exact dollar amount.
Mr. Hill asked if the accounting errors are what made the difference between the 15.8 million we would have collected in levy revenue and the $20 million. According to Mr. Sabin, at this time the dollar amount has not been affirmed, but the accounting error is probably about half of the $20 million.  Moving forward will be a process.
  Individuals who receive a Reduction In Force Letter, will receive it as a personal letter.
Ms. Jensen noted she is trying to understand what is being asked of her as a Board member. Mr. Sabin stated this is a study session to present the Resolution 2024-05 Draft and Exhibit A for the Board to ask questions. Mr. Sabin noted on Thursday at the regularly scheduled Board meeting the Board will be asked to take action on this resolution stating MLSD is going to reduce the program by $20,000,000 in the various areas listed in Exhibit A which will allow the District to move forward with work that needs to be accomplished. Ms. Jensen reiterated that the Resolution just states the number of the whole. The superintendent stated, a dollar amount is being used to allow for flexibility in the different areas mentioned and doesn't tie the District to reducing by a certain FTE. The ultimate goal is to retain as many positions as possible.  It is the intent of the District not to predetermine numbers of people reduced before the process begins.
Mr. O'Neil noted, "there is a financial emergency". We need permission from the Board to do the work necessary to make the reductions. Ultimately we just need the acknowledgment from the Board.
Mr. Fuhr went on to confirm that if the resolution is not passed on Thursday night, the School District would not have the authority to let anyone go, therefore the budget would not be balanced.
Mr. Fuhr noted that the number one priority of the district is to educate students so that when they end school they are ready to go into the career field or into higher education. He noted the first priority should be anything that is not education related should be cut. Mr. Fuhr said the classified and certified employees should be the last cut to insure we have the educators to educate the students.  He noted, as Ms. Jensen said, they need a secure place to be educated, but education is number one.
Ms. Jensen requested a list of the new positions that have been created in the last three years at the district. She clarified, not new employees, but new positions.
Mr. O'Neil shared, for context purposes, $20M represents roughly a little over 13% of our $152,000,000 budget.
  3. Adjournment
Action, Procedural: A. Adjournment Time
Moved to approve adjournment at 7:08 p.m.
  Motion by Paul Hill, second by Kevin Fuhr.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

   