Regular Meeting 6:00 P.M. (Thursday, April 11, 2024)
  Members present
Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias
  1. Opening Items
Procedural: A. Call Meeting to Order at 6:00 p.m.
  Procedural: B. Pledge of Allegiance
  Action, Minutes: C. Approval of Minutes
Moved to approve minutes from March 28, 2024 meeting.
  Motion by Amy Breitenstein, second by Kevin Fuhr.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

Action: D. Changes or Additions to the Agenda
  Action: E. Adoption of Agenda
Moved for adoption of the agenda.
  Motion by Paul Hill, second by Amy Breitenstein.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

2. Recognition
Presentation: A. Key Club from MLHS & Vanguard
Student Board Representative, Elizabeth Diaz invited the Key Club Officers from Moses Lake High School, however only the president was able to attend due to a track meet. President Kawika Delottinville was introduced and shared the many projects Key Club does in the Moses Lake Community as well as at the high school. Key Club provides other great activities and opportunities for its members.
  3. School Sharing
Presentation: A. Robin Kimbro - Sage Point
Mrs. Kimbro, Sage Point Elementary Principal, introduced her student leadership team and together they presented a video.
  Presentation: B.  Cheri Ward - Park Orchard
Mrs. Ward, Park Orchard Elementary Principal, introduced her staff and student leadership team and together they presented to the Board.
  4. Consent Agenda
Action (Consent): A. Personnel
Resolution: Moved to accept the assignments as indicated.
  Motion by Carla Urias, second by Paul Hill.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias
  Action (Consent): B. Accounts Payable/Payroll
Resolution: Moved to accept accounts payable/payroll report.
  Motion by Carla Urias, second by Paul Hill.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

Action (Consent): C. Approval of Consent Agenda
Resolution: Move to approve the consent agenda according to the recommended action for each item.
  Motion by Carla Urias, second by Paul Hill.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias
  5. Required Approvals
Action (Required Approvals): A. Approval of Required Approvals
There were no Required Approvals at this meeting.
  6. Citizen Comments
Information: A. Public Comments on Agenda Items
  Information: B. Public Comments on Non-Agenda Items
  7. New Business
Information, Presentation: A. Discipline - Matrix and how discipline is determined.
Triscia Hochstatter shared a presentation via video to explain an overview of discipline in the Moses Lake School District.
The purpose of discipline is to change unwanted behaviors with the ultimate goal of creating a safe and inclusive environment for all, both in and outside of school.
Discipline means to teach. We want students to be able to self regulate and to be able to forge healthy relationships while building  social and emotional skills with both students and adults.
There has been a shift from indiscriminate punishing of undesirable behavior to trying to understand the behavior. We want to look at students and capitalize on their strengths.
Practices in our district are built to abide by the laws in our state. We must have a matrix that is consistent with the law, as well as updated policies and procedures. The WACs and laws give guidance.
Additional practices are embedded in law that we also use in conjunction with our discipline.
We have a protocol to assess any threats. This is called threat assessment where a joint effort takes place.  The goal is to assess the threat and develop a safety plan to ensure the safety of all. We have moved away from progressive discipline toward providing guidance that really honors the context of the situation, since all situations are different.
The discipline matrix gives administrators guidelines to navigate discipline. A great deal of description is in the matrix because every situation can be interpreted differently. Ms. Hochstatter shared the different types of behavior violations and noted they are all mentioned within the attached document of the discipline matrix. Positive practices and strategies were also shared.  A lot of work goes on behind the scenes when addressing these behaviors, to respect the privacy of all involved.

Information, Presentation: B. Facilities Study and Survey
Jeremy O'Neil shared that the work reported in the Facilities Study and Survey is ongoing. Tonight will be about an element that leads into a Study and Survey, which essentially is a long range plan for the district.
Mr. O'Neil gave a review of the current buildings. Many of the MLSD buildings are approximately 70 years old.
The condition matrix of the buildings was shared. As part of the Asset Protection program we are required to update annually.  Every six years, as part of the study and survey and as required by regulation, MLSD is to have a third party review. The majority of our schools fall into the "fair" condition category.
The HVAC/cooling is a common concern throughout the buildings two decades old. Mr. O'Neil shared a collage of all rooftops in the district that showed the rooftop units on the buildings, some of which are beyond their useful life. There are many leaks in the older roofs. It would take tremendous resources to replace the roofs on these buildings.
Our maintenance team works tirelessly to keep our kids safe and warm in the winter. A product has been found that is helping to make repairs successful. The design of the newer schools is much better. When funding is available, work to upgrade an HVAC series is done to help extend the life of the units.
We are dedicated to ensuring an emotionally and physically safe learning environment for all.
Ms. Jensen asked what an ideal situation for replacing the HVAC in these buildings would be. Mr. O'Neil noted that any repairs done to a 1950's vintage school is difficult. It is a great expense to replace these buildings with new.
North, Larson, and Endeavor are electric buildings and struggle when the weather is extreme. The natural gas buildings do better.
In the written report on page one, the 30 year replacement cycle is available. The next schools up for replacement or remodel are Garden Heights and North, followed by Larson.
Mr. Fuhr noted that he would like to see two small schools becoming one larger school to cut down on costs. We have strategic locations that could make that work well in the future.
Ms. Jensen asked if there has been an evaluation of fencing, sidewalks, and playgrounds, etc. Mr. O'Neil said yes from a physical condition, but not from a security standpoint.
Mr. Fuhr noted that trying to secure these older outside entrance schools is nearly impossible, unless you build a security fence around it and monitor everyone who comes in.
  8. Old Business
Action: A. Policy 3432 Emergencies
Moved to approve Policy 3432 with the changes indicated.
  Motion by Paul Hill, second by Kevin Fuhr.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

9. Information Items
Information: A. Student Board Representatives Report
Keera Michie shared the math team is going to host regional competitions with volunteers from the high school helping.
It appears the advanced classes for 24-25 are not being filled. It would be unfortunate for students if they were not to have advanced classes opportunities. Keera says she is passionate about this because she believes these classes help students achieve higher goals.
Keera enjoyed seeing the Key Club represented. She noted at the District Conference the Vanguard and MLHS Key Club's received awards. Past president, April Seiler, received a $1,000 scholarship.
Elizabeth Diaz reported MLHS students recently enjoyed a Bubble Day at the high school. Students received a small bubble wand and it was quite uplifting for students.
Woody's recently partnered with the Sr. Senators by creating a fun treat, with some of the profit going to the Sr. Class at MLHS.
Elizabeth noted that Prom is Saturday, April 21st, and will be at Stanley's, which is the old Elks Building, from 8-11 pm.
The Jazz Bands will be attending a festival in Pasco on Saturday, April 13th.
  Information: B. Board Comments
Mr. Hill noted the WSSDA positions were all accepted for review by WSSDA. WSSDA will consolidate all district positions and give their input as well.  These will be presented for vote at General Conference.
Ms. Urias and Ms. Breitenstein expressed their thanks to the student reps for their reports and to those who were in attendance.
Ms. Jensen posed a challenge to the community to find a child, or your own child, and connect with them. Talk to them and support them.
  10. Executive Session
  11. Adjournment
Action, Procedural: A. Adjournment Time
Moved to adjourn the meeting. The time was 7:43 p.m.
  Motion by Kevin Fuhr, second by Paul Hill.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Kevin Fuhr, Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

   