Special Work Session Meeting 6:30 P.M. (Thursday, July 18, 2024)
Members present
Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein
  1. Opening Items
Procedural: A. Call Meeting to Order
  Procedural: B. Pledge of Allegiance
  Action: C. Changes or Additions to the Agenda
Moved to approve removing Discussion Item 2C from the agenda.
  Motion by Paul Hill, second by Amy Breitenstein.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein
  Action: D. Adoption of Agenda
Moved to approve amended agenda as stated in 1C.
  Motion by Paul Hill, second by Amy Breitenstein.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein
  2. Discussion
Presentation: A. Function of ESD--Linda McKay
Linda McKay, Deputy Superintendent, and Suzanne Reister, Executive Director of Human Resources, from North Central Education Service District presented the many services of the ESD.
They were able to share the benefits of being a part of the ESD's workers compensation and the unemployment pool which are cost effective insurance pools.
The ESD provides risk management services to MLSD as well as helps to minimize the rates paid by the district. The savings in these areas is passed on to each district the ESD serves.
The ESD also makes available quite a few cooperatives to assist the districts.
  Discussion: B. Reduced Educational Program
Carol Lewis, Interim Superintendent, noted each day she and the team are closer and closer to figuring things out. Ms. Lewis stated she believes they are roughly about $3.6M dollars away from presenting a balanced budget. Ms. Lewis said she is meeting tomorrow with Trisha Schock, NCESD Assistant Superintendent, and Mitchell Thompson, MLSD Executive Director of Finance and Operations, to bring their work together.
Meetings with the MLEA bargaining team will be July 29th, August 1st, 6th and 9th. They are moving toward having a balanced budget with the reduced educational program. With $20 million less in our programming than before.  We want to focus on what we can do and are required to do so students will graduate from high school.
We cannot spend money we don't have. We are very tight in how we are budgeting and planning.
Ms. Lewis noted it is hard not to have the awesome services we have had in the past and is difficult for everyone, but we are moving forward.

Discussion: C. WSSDA Legislative Positions--Removed from agenda during  the opening of the meeting.
  Discussion: D. Water Usage
Brian Sewell shared ideas and options or water moving forward. A great deal of discussion took place concerning city water and the use of wells within the city limits.
  Discussion: E. Surplus Property
Mr. Sewell explained a firm is going to appraise the parcel on Wheeler Road as well as the property near CB Tech.
Once the appraisal is done, we will be able to continue the process of the selling of these properties.
  3. Adjournment
Action: A. Adjournment Time
The meeting was adjourned at 8:33 p.m.
 