MERIDIAN SCHOOL DISTRICT #505
MINUTES OF EXECUTIVE SESSION AND REGULAR SCHOOL BOARD MEETING
MERIDIAN SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEETING HELD VIA ZOOM
April 13th, 2022
Revised February 8, 2023
The regular meeting was called to order by Board Chair, Craig Mitchell, at 7:03 p.m. Chair Mitchell welcomed those
in attendance.
Board members present at the meeting were Craig Mitchell; Sara Bernardy; Jarrod Karuza; Marty Gray; Steve
Corwin.
Marty Gray attended remotely
The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
Sara Bernardy made a motion to adopt the agenda. Jarrod Karuza seconded the motion; the motion passed 5-0.
CONSENT AGENDA
A. Approval of Meeting Minutes
B. Accounts Payable
C. Payroll
D. Personnel Report
E. 2022-2023 Whatcom County Detention Center Interlocal
A motion to adopt the consent agenda was made by Jarrod Karuza and seconded by Sara Bernardy. The motion
passed 5-0.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Corey Culp came to inquire about when students would be able to use the locker rooms at the middle schools.

Nancy Slesk – Concerns about the gender identity course being taught to kids K-3. If that is a course that is
going to be taught why can’t that be an after-school class that families can opt into. That way it can be a family
decision. Sexual orientation is complex, and most students do not figure it out until after puberty. Parents
should know when courses are being taught so they can remove their children. If this is being taught K-3 she
will vote no on the levy and the bond.
PRESENTATIONS
School Report: Meridian Middle School
Principal, Todd Torgeson, presented about the Meridian Middle School. Mr. Torgeson spoke on the numbers,
assessments, and how we can lift students up and help those who have fallen behind, especially in COVID. They
use the data to create games and opportunities to help students.

Revised and re-signed at Feb. 8, 2023 Board meeting to correct typographical errors that were
previously made in original minutes.

Food Services Report
Food Services Director, Rob Dunn, presented to the Board about the new equipment purchased in the Food Service
Department. We purchased new lunch tables, milk coolers, and stanches for the schools. It looks like next year the
federal government will not be paying for lunch for all, this means that it is increasingly important for families to
fill out free and reduced lunch forms. We recently started a breakfast program at MP3. We are having difficulty
with supply chain items.
Annual Preservation Program Report
Superintendent, Dr. James Everett presented to the board on behalf of Maintenance and Operations Director, Jay
Yeager. There is a grant that OSPI has for 25,000 that we got to pay for a study and survey process. These reports
are due yearly to the Board by April 1st so we need to keep that in mind for future board years.
OLD BUSINESS
Sammamish Data: Re-Districting Proposal
Superintendent, Dr. James Everett presented a first second reading of the Sammamish Data: Re-Districting
Proposal to the Board. A motion to adopt the Sammamish Data: Re-Districting proposal was made by Jarrod Karuza
and seconded by Sara Bernardy. The motion passed 5-0.
Second Reading: Policy and Procedure 5222
Assistant Superintendent, Kurt Harvill presented a first second reading of Policy & Procedure 5222: Job-Sharing
Staff Members to the Board. A motion to adopt Policy and Procedure 5222 was made by Sara Bernardy and
seconded by Steve Corwin. The motion passed 5-0.
Second Reading: Policy and Procedure 5252
Assistant Superintendent, Kurt Harvill presented a first second reading of Policy and Procedure 5252 – Policy and
Procedure 5252: Staff Participation in Political Activities. A motion to adopt Policy and Procedure 5252 was made
by Sara Bernardy and seconded by Steve Corwin. The motion passed 5-0.
Curriculum Adoption: AP Biology

Director of Teaching and Learning, Adrienne Somera, presented a first second reading of Curriculum Adoptions
for Advanced Placement Biology to the Board. A motion to adopt the AP Biology curriculum was made by Jarrod

Karuza and seconded by Steve Corwin. The motion passed 5-0.
Curriculum Adoption: Transitional Kindergarten

Director of Teaching and Learning, Adrienne Somera, presented a first second reading of Curriculum Adoptions
for Transitional Kindergarten to the Board. A motion to adopt Transitional Kindergarten Curriculum made by Sara

Bernardy and seconded by Marty Gray. The motion passed 5-0.

Curriculum Adoption: Secondary Comprehensive Sexual Health

Director of Teaching and Learning, Adrienne Somera, presented a second reading of Curriculum Adoptions for
Secondary Comprehensive Sexual Health to the Board. A motion to adopt Secondary Comprehensive Sexual Health

Education was made by Marty Gray and seconded by Sara Bernardy. The motion passed 3-0.
Steve Corwin and Jarrod Karuza voted no.

Curriculum Adoption: Elementary Comprehensive Sexual Health

Director of Teaching and Learning, Adrienne Somera, presented a second reading of Curriculum Adoptions for
Elementary Comprehensive Sexual Health to the Board. A motion to adopt Policy and Procedure 5620 was made

by Marty Gray. There was not a second and no vote was had. The Board moved to table the vote for further
discussion.

Revised and re-signed at Feb. 8, 2023 Board meeting to correct typographical errors that were
previously made in original minutes.

NEW BUSINESS
2021-2022 Board Yearly Plan of Work Update Draft
Superintendent, Dr. James Everett presented a first reading of the 2021-2022 Board Yearly Plan of Work Update
Draft.
WCC PT Agreement
Superintendent, Dr. James Everett presented a first reading of the WCC PT Agreement to the Board.
First Reading: Policy and Procedure 3211
Assistant Superintendent, Kurt Harvill presented a first reading of Policy & Procedure 3211—Gender Inclusive
Schools.
First Reading: Policy and Procedure 3416
Assistant Superintendent, Kurt Harvill presented a first reading of Policy and Procedure 3416—Medication at
School.
First Reading: Policy and Procedure 3424
Assistant Superintendent, Kurt Harvill presented a first reading of Policy and Procedure 3424— Opioid-Related
Overdose Reversal.
First Reading: Policy and Procedure 4200
Assistant Superintendent, Kurt Harvill presented a first reading of Policy and Procedure 4200— Parent Access and
Safe and Orderly Learning Environment.
SUPERINTENDENT’S REPORT
Superintendent, Dr. James Everett presented a hiring update, spring break maintenance updates, a NCTA update
and reminder about upcoming conferences.
INFORMATION FROM BOARD MEMBERS
The next Regular Board Meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, April 27 th at 7:00 p.m.
BOARD SIGNATURE OF OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS
ADJOURNMENT
There being no further business, the Regular meeting was adjourned at 8:40 p.m. by Board Chair, Craig Mitchell.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
The Board was set to move into executive session at 8:15. At 8:10 pm Craig Mitchell announced the Board would
not be moving into Executive Session until 8:40 PM. At 8:40 PM the Board moved into Executive Session to review
the performance of a public employee. The Executive session was expected to last sixty minutes and the meeting
was adjourned at 9:32 PM.

__________________________________

_________________________________

Craig Mitchell
James Everett, Superintendent
Chair of the Board
Secretary to the Board
Revised and re-signed at Feb. 8, 2023 Board meeting to correct typographical errors that were
previously made in original minutes.

