    May 6, 2024 Board Meeting
Lake Washington Board of Directors
  A. Regular Board Meeting - 7:00 p.m.
  B. Opening Items
1. Convene, Roll Call
The meeting was called to order at 7:04 p.m.
  Members present
Leah Choi, Lisa Guthrie, Eric Laliberte, Mark Stuart, Lindsey Yocum

Students Representatives Present:
Shivani Sama, Taran Srinivisan
  2. Land Acknowledgement
President Choi shared the Lake Washington School District Board of Directors’ Land Acknowledgement.
  3. Approve Agenda
  RESOLUTION: Approve the agenda as presented.
Motion by Eric Laliberte, second by Lindsey Yocum.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
  C. Recognitions
1. National School Nurse Day, May 08, 2024
The LWSD Board of Directors proclaimed May 8, 2024, as National School Nurse Day in Lake Washington School District in recognition of our school nurses who advance the well-being, academic success, and life-long achievements of all students by serving on the frontlines and providing a critical safety net for our nation’s most fragile children.
  2. Teacher Appreciation Week and National Teachers Day, May 6-10 and May 7, 2024
The LWSD Board of Directors proclaimed May 6-10 as Teacher Appreciation Week, and May 7 as National Teacher’s Day. The teachers in Lake Washington School District deserve recognition for their hard work to help students achieve the district’s vision of “Every Student Future Ready”.
  D. Audience Participation
Public comment started at 7:11 p.m.
  Name Role Topic Method of comment
Zahra Eslami LWSD Parent, Guardian or Family Member LWSD’s Vigorous Stance: Shielding Students and Families from Islamophobia and Anti-Semitism In Person
Sara Duke LWSD Parent, Guardian or Family Member LWSD Concerns In Person
  RECESS:  The board took recess from 7:17  to 7:33 p.m. due to audience misconduct.
Public comment resumed following recess.
  Name Role Topic Method of comment
Alex Lee LWSD Parent, Guardian or Family Member Updates from Cascadia College In Person
Ishai Shvartz LWSD Parent, Guardian or Family Member Antisemitism at LWSD schools In Person
Shaima AbdulMajeed LWSD Parent, Guardian or Family Member Inclusion In Person
Kelley Osmanbhoy
LWSD Parent, Guardian or Family Member,
LWSD Staff
District messaging In Person
Ella Badarin LWSD Parent, Guardian or Family Member Islamophobia and students bullying In Person
Heather Colomb LWSD Parent, Guardian or Family Member Support for Helen Keller Elementary In Person
Tucker Andrews LWSD Student Environmental Policy In Person
Michelle Koval LWSD Parent, Guardian or Family Member Redmond Elementary Staffing In Person
Devon Kellogg LWSD Parent, Guardian or Family Member Sustainability Policy In Person
    E. Consent Agenda
1. Minutes - April 15, 2024 Study Session
RESOLUTION: Approve the minutes as presented.
  2. Minutes - April 15, 2024 Board Meeting
RESOLUTION: Approve the minutes as presented.
  3. Minutes - May 1, 2024 Special Board Meeting
RESOLUTION: Approve the minutes as presented.
  4. Human Resources Report and Salary Schedule
RESOLUTION:  Approve the Human Resources Report, as presented.
  5. Out of Endorsement Assignment Waiver
RESOLUTION: The Board of Directors approves the 2023-24 school year out-of-endorsement assignment waiver for each teacher listed per WAC 181-82-110.
  6. 2024-25 Reduced Staffing, Resolution No. 2374
RESOLUTION: Approve Resolution No. 2374, 2024-2025 Reduced Staffing, directing the Superintendent to implement reduced staffing for the 2024-25 school year.
  7. Donations
RESOLUTION: Accept the donations as presented.
  8. Delegating Authority to KingCo Conference, 2024-2025, Resolution No. 2368
RESOLUTION: Approve Resolution No. 2368 delegating responsibility for post season conference level play to the KingCo Conference.
  9. Washington Interscholastic Activities Association Enrollment, 2024 - 2025, Resolution No. 2369
RESOLUTION: Adopts Resolution No. 2369, delegating the authority to control, supervise, and regulate interschool activities to the Washington Interscholastic Activities Association for the 2024-2025 school year.
  10. Board Policy Adoption - Operational Expectation-03, Community Engagement and Experience
RESOLUTION: The Board adopts OE-03 as presented.
  11. New In Lieu Of Modernization - Louisa May Alcott Elementary School (Site 53), Rebuild And Enlarge, Resolution No. 2370
RESOLUTION: Approve Resolution No. 2370, which provides the certification required by the Superintendent of Public Instruction for the submission of an application to construct a new facility in lieu of modernization at Louisa May Alcott Elementary School and affirms that the District, once the new school is constructed, will not use the existing school for instructional purposes.
  12. New In Lieu Of Modernization - Samantha Smith Elementary School (Site 56), Rebuild And Enlarge, Resolution No. 2371
RESOLUTION: Approve Resolution No. 2371, which provides the certification required by the Superintendent of Public Instruction for the submission of an application to construct a new facility in lieu of modernization at Samantha Smith Elementary School and affirms that the District, once the new school is constructed, will not use the existing school for instructional purposes.
  13. New In Lieu Of Modernization - Kamiakin Middle School (Site 67), Rebuild And Enlarge, Resolution No. 2372
RESOLUTION: Approve Resolution No. 2372 which provides the certification required by the Superintendent of Public Instruction for the submission of an application to construct a new facility in lieu of modernization at Kamiakin Middle School and affirms that the District, once the new school is constructed, will not use the existing school for instructional purposes.
  14. New In Lieu Of Modernization - Evergreen Middle School (Site 74), Rebuild And Enlarge, Resolution No. 2373
RESOLUTION: Approve Resolution No. 2373 which provides the certification required by the Superintendent of Public Instruction for the submission of an application to construct a new facility in lieu of modernization at Evergreen Middle School and affirms that the District, once the new school is constructed, will not use the existing school, other than the existing gymnasium and associated physical education and athletic space, for instructional purposes.
  15. Board Policy - Discontinue OE-09
RESOLUTION: Discontinue policy OE-09: Communication and Community Engagement as presented.
  16. WSSDA Permanant Legislative Position - Proposed
RESOLUTION: Board adopts the proposed WSSDA legislative position as written.
  17. 2024-25 Board Meeting Schedule
RESOLUTION: Move to approve the 2024-25 board meeting schedule as presented.
  18. Approval of Consent Agenda
  RESOLUTION: Approve the consent agenda as presented.
Motion by Eric Laliberte, second by Lisa Guthrie.
Aye: Leah Choi, Lisa Guthrie, Eric Laliberte, Mark Stuart, Lindsey Yocum
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
  F. Non-Consent Agenda
1. District Curriculum Selection - K-5 Social Studies
The Board unanimously approved the recommendation by the Social Studies Curriculum Selection Committee to adopt the materials that have been approved by the Instructional Materials Committee: Inquiry Journeys from InquirEd.  
Social studies teachers will have multiple opportunities to participate in professional development in social studies standards, effective instructional practice and curriculum materials. This learning will be a collaborative effort involving multiple departments to ensure district initiatives and priorities are cohesively woven together for staff within implementation. Training through professional learning sessions will begin in August during LEAP days and will continue throughout the 2024-2025 school year. 
Teacher and student materials will be accessible and online in August 2024. The curriculum materials will be implemented in the 2024-25 school year. 
  RESOLUTION: Approve the recommendation from the Social Studies Curriculum Selection Committee to adopt the materials that have been approved by the Instructional Materials Committee: Inquiry Journeys from InquirEd.
Motion by Mark Stuart, second by Lindsey Yocum.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
  2. First Reading: Operational Expectation-XX Sustainability
Deputy Superintendent Gillingham presented the first reading of a new Operational Expectation (OE) around Sustainability.
The Board of Directors will formally act on this new OE at the May 20, 2024 meeting.
  RECESS:  The board took recess from 9:16  to 9:28 p.m.
  3.  Inclusionary Practices Program Update [Topic tabled to a future meeting]
  RESOLUTION:  Table this agenda item to a future meeting
Motion by Eric Laliberte, second by Lisa Guthrie.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries.
  4. Administrative Policy 2415-Performance Based Pathway for High School Graduation
Associate Superintendent Dr. Jen Rose presented the Performance-Based Pathway for High School Graduation. The State Board of Education approved an additional option for students to meet the graduation pathways requirement through a performance-based pathway. LWSD added the option to the list of graduation pathways in Procedure 2420P in March 2024, but need to add Policy 2415 to provide more guidance for development and implementation. This policy follows the WSSDA model policy. The Board unanimously approved this policy.
  RESOLUTION:  Approve the adoption of Policy 2415, as presented.
Motion by Mark Stuart, second by Lisa Guthrie.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
  G. Superintendent Report
1. Superintendent Report: New In Lieu Studies
Superintendent Holmen shared more information about the four new in-lieu studies that were approved in the Consent Agenda. New In-Lieu studies play a crucial role in school construction projects. They are required by the Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction (OSPI) for School Construction Assistance Program (SCAP) funding. They evaluate the overall cost-effectiveness and feasibility of renovating the aging building vs. constructing a new facility. All four of the potential 2024 Building Excellence Construction Levy projects have been recommended for full replacement instead of renovation/modernization.
  H. Public and Community Affairs
1. Update on Public and Community Affairs
Director Yocum shared that she spoke at the LWPTSA Council meeting last week.
Director Guthrie spoke about the changes LWSD proposed to the Washington State School Directors Association (WSSDA) legislative positions.  
  I. Closing Items
1. School Visits
Members of the Board are scheduled to visit Juanita High School (JHS) and Sandburg Elementary on May 21 (JHS) and May 23 (Sandburg).
Director Yocum and Director Guthrie both attended a “High School the Musical” production at Renaissance School of Art and Reasoning. 
  2. Committee Updates
Director Guthrie shared an update from the April Community Connectors meeting. That committee has added another meeting before the end of the year. That group has been focused on Community Resource Officers' work while in schools and how the District can ensure a safe learning environment for all students.
President Choi shared that the Board received an update on the work of the Strategic Planning workgroups during the Study Session. She also shared that the Board will hear an update on the work of the high school experience committee at the May 20 Study Session. 
  3. Review of Future Board Business
The Board will meet again on Monday, May 20, 2024
  4. Executive Session for the purpose to consider the selection of a site or the acquisition of real estate by lease or purchase
The board went into executive session for 30 minutes beginning at 10:00 p.m.
  5. Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 10:30 p.m.
  J. Official Minutes
  1. Official Minutes - May 6, 2024 Board Meeting
The May 6, 2024 Board Meeting Minutes are scheduled for approval at the May 20, 2024 board meeting.
      Minutes generated by Teresa Harding on Tuesday, May 7, 2024
 