BREMERTON SCHOOL DISTRICT 100-C
Regular Board Meeting 5:00 p.m.
Thursday, June 20, 2024
  Generated by Marlaina D Simmons on Monday, June 24, 2024
  MEETING OPENING 
The meeting of the Bremerton School District Board of Directors was called to order by President Rotter at 5:01 p.m. The meeting was held in the Boardroom located at Bremerton School District at 134 Marion Ave., Bremerton, WA 98312. 
  Members Present:                                       Members Absent:
Ms. Alyson L Rotter, President                         Jonee Dubos
Mr. John P Hurley, Vice President
Ms. Carolynn M Perkins
Ms. Karen Bolton
Ms. Nora Ramstad, Student Representative to the Board
  Administrators Present:
Dr. James Crawford, Superintendent
Dr. Garth Steedman, Assistant Superintendent
Ms. Teneka Morley-Short, Principal, West Hills STEM Academy 
Ms. Carol Bailie, Supervisor, Human Resources
Ms. Patty Glaser, Supervisor, School Safety & Security
Ms. Julie Fairall, Assistant Director of State and Federal Programs
Ms. Karen Bevers, Director of Communication and Community Engagement
Ms. Brittane DeBard, Executive Director of Learning and Leadership Development
Ms. Iva Scott, Assistant Superintendent
Ms. Cynthia Cantwell, Director of Academics, SE, and Cognitive Learning
Ms. Kelsey McCreary, Assistant Director of Special Education & Early Learning
Nikhil Gautam, Director of Technology
Mark Mayfield, Principal, Renaissance High School
B. Land Acknowledgement
Director Bolton read the Land Acknowledgement and explained the importance of the public acknowledgement.
  C. Pledge of Allegiance
Director Perkins led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Action: D. Approval of Agenda
Superintendent Crawford stated that there were changes to the HR Report and the addition of the Letter of Engagement under the Consent Agenda, The Student Representative’s Report under Reports, and the 2024 WSSDA Bylaw Addition Proposal under Discussion Action Items. Director Hurley made a motion to amend the agenda to recess into an Executive Session to meet with legal counsel at the end of the meeting. Director Perkins moved to approve the Agenda as amended.  The motion carried unanimously.
  2. RECOGNITION
A. Juneteenth
President Rotter recognized Juneteenth commemorates the announcement of the abolition of slavery in Galveston, Texas on June 19, 1865, officially marking the end of slavery in the United States. She also acknowledged Governor Inslee’s Proclamation that was included in the agenda.
  3. CONSENT AGENDA
President Rotter presented the Consent Agenda for questions or comments.  There were none.  The Consent Agenda included:
A. Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of June 6, 2024, B. Minutes of the Special Board Meeting of June 6, 2024, C. Minutes of the Special Board Meeting of June 12, 2024, D. Minutes of the Special Board Meeting of June 13, 2024, E. Policy 2163- Response to Intervention, F. Policy 2195- Academic Acceleration, G. Resolution 2023/2024-24; Surplus School Bus, H. Out of State / Overnight Student Travel, I. Updated 2024/2025 School Year Academic Calendar, J. Interlocal Agreement with Catalyst Public Schools, K. Payroll for issue date of June 14, 2024, L. HR Report – 16, M. Letter of engagement. . Director Bolton moved to approve the Consent Agenda as presented.  The motion carried unanimously.
  4. REPORTS
A. Student Representative's Report
Student Representative to the Board, Nora Ramstad, presented a report to the Board covering recent Bremerton High School athletic and school events. A few highlights from their presentation include:
Key club elections
New Interact Club
Rotary Youth Leadership Awards
ALA Girls and Boys State
Rotary Exchange Students
  B. Board Reports
Director Bolton shared that on August 1st, the 2025 legislative priority booklet will be released.
Director Hurley attended the Bremerton High School graduation and loved the beautiful weather. He also attended the Naval Avenue Elementary 5th grade Moving Up Ceremony and their garden day. He had a conversation with Amber Plummer. Bremerton High School’s Athletics Director about bringing Lacrosse and Girl’s Flag Football to Bremerton and he is excited to explore it further.
President Rotter enjoyed all of the end of the school year activities, award nights, Graduations, and moving up ceremonies. She also shared that she loves seeing summer sports opportunities.
  C. Superintendent's Report
Dr. Crawford shared that the district hosted our first Leadership Summit was held on Monday where leadership teams from each school unpacked the Strategic Plan and began creating their school improvement plans for next year. He also shared that the middle school and high school came to census on cell phone policies so there will be more to come as that develops. He provided some data from the Spring Conferences where all of our schools saw an increase in attendance and the at the Bond Capitol Project Leadership team has begun.
  D. 2023/2024 General Fund Status
Dr. Steedman presented the 2023/2024 General Fund Status. He explained that the capital projects fund will go up on Tuesday because we sold the bond. We are currently at 1 million 7 but there is some revenue delays and we also have some funds coming in from special services. We are currently trending lower but anticipates coming back up.

President Rotter commented that the board appreciates the report format Dr. Steedman has developed with the trends and color coding and that it is nice to see that the patterns are the same.
  5. DISCUSSION/ACTION ITEMS
A. Strategic Plan - 5 Year
Rose Wagner with Performance Fact presented the outcome of the Strategic Planning Process and the final plan. She discussed the power of alignment and embracing diverse perspectives and voices during the process. The district hosted 29 sessions with 180 people totaling over 100 hours. The Core values included in the plan were developed from the existing recipe for success. A promise statement, Portrait of a Graduate, and 4 goals for student success were also developed.
President Rotter thanked Performance Fact for their facilitation of the process and commented that it was very thorough and impressive. Director Bolton moved to approve the 2024-2030 Strategic Plan as presented. There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  
    B. Policy 2410- High School Graduation Requirements
Assistant Superintendent Iva Scott presented Policy 2410. Current policy 2410 allows for students to earn .625 credits for each class. Most school districts in the state of Washington allow for students to earn .5 credits for each class. She recommended that the BHS counseling, administration, guiding coalition, and RHS team recommend transitioning to a .5 credit structure starting the 2024-2025 school year.
Director Bolton commented that she is glad to see financial literacy and that it is very important for our kids to have before they leave our district.
Director Hurley asked what the 4x4 model is that was referenced by Assistant Superintendent Iva Scott. She explained that it is a schedule where students take 4 classes a day and have an A and B day. It is a more expensive model to run due to the fact that a quarter of the time staff are in planning instead of a 6th of the time.
President Rotter emphasized that what is best for students isn't always what is funded which makes it hard for decision makers. She also shared that she is proud of the work that has gone into the shift to the 24-credit diploma.
Director Perkins moved to approve Policy 2410- High School Graduation Requirements as presented. There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  
  C. Resolution 2023/2024-22; Compensation and Benefits for the Assn. of Bremerton Administrators (ABA)
Dr. Steedman presented the resolution to the board and explained that we are in a bargaining year and this resolution acknowledges that they are still in the process and allows the work to continue. Director Bolton moved to approve Resolution 2023/2024-22, Compensation and Benefits for the Association of Bremerton Administrators, as presented. There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  
  D. Resolution 2023/2024-23; Compensation and Benefits (Exempt)
Dr. Steedman presented the resolution to the board and explained that this resolution is for those that aren't represented by a union and that we won't solidify until bargaining is complete.
Director Bolton moved to approve Resolution 2023/2024-23, Compensation and Benefits, as presented. There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  
  E. 2024 WSSDA Bylaw Addition Proposal
Director Bolton, Legislative Rep for the board, presented the -2024 WSSDA Bylaw Addition Proposal. She shared that currently not all school districts have reps. This would change bylaws to increase the network so that every WSSDA committee has a student representative. She shared that there needs to be students in the room for all discussions and decision making
Director Hurley agreed that everything they do should involves students.
Director Perkins shared that she was on WSSDA board of directors when they initiated the process of student reps. She4 is excited that students now have opportunity to learn and go back to their boards and tell them why it’s important.
President Rotter acknowledged that she hasn't gotten Nora's advisory vote yet on the Discussion/Action agenda items. She apologized and queried her advisory vote. Nora voted aye. Director Hurley moved to approve the 2024 WSSDA Bylaw Addition Proposal as presented.
  6. WRITTEN REPORTS
Noted: A. Student Attendance
  7. CALENDAR OF EVENTS
A. Important Dates to Remember
Upcoming events were noted.
  8. PUBLIC INPUT
A. Request to Address the Board
  Lynn Horton- Thanked the district for the Strategic Planning process. Expressed the need for it to be implemented and urged board to move forward with implementation.

Bette Hyde-Said this is the best Strategic Plan she has ever seen and that was due to process.

Cary Bozeman- Congratulated the board, district and Dr. Crawford for passing the bond and levy. He thanked Dr. Crawford for his leadership.

Eric Morley- Was on the Core Planning Team and sees unity through the Strategic Plan. He shared appreciation for the board’s support of plan and Dr. Crawford’s leadership.

Patty Lent- Shared her support for the Strategic Plan and the passing of the levy and bond.

Linda Jenkins- Thanked Dr. Crawford and the school board for the Strategic Plan. She appreciates the work, but said that implementation is the hard part. We need commitment from teachers and principals. Accountability is the key

Mary Lou Long- Thanked everyone for the work on the SP. Spoke on cell phones in the classroom and that concerned about education statistics. She would like a ban on cell phones in the classroom.

Anna Mockler- Said that the Strategic Plan is thrilling loves emphasis on creativity and with the focus on the kids.
  9. BOARD REFLECTIONS
A. Directors' Reflections on this Evening's Meeting.
  Director Perkins is excited WSSDA will be adding students in committees and expanding their voice. She said that the Strategic Plan was thoughtfully done and that it was inspiring to see different perspectives come together for the kids. She thanked everyone involved in the process. She has full confidence in teachers, principals and staff in implementation and thanked everyone in attendance for support.

Director Bolton is so proud of Bremerton and everyone that showed up for the Strategic Planning process. She shared that the board has been doing the groundwork since 2019 to get to today. The board has made a commitment and they are all in. She believes that the creation of the cell phone policy should be a student led discussion because if you want buy in they need to be at the table.

Director Hurley said it feel like the culmination of a journey with the Strategic Plan, bond and levy. He is excited that our Strategic Plan puts Early Learning back on the roadmap. He thanked Performance Fact for all the time they put in. He is excited about students being added to WSSDA committees because he said none of this matter without student voice. They care and have a lot to say. He loves our community and said that these are OUR kids. He extended an invitation to volunteer in schools or mentor so you can impact a child.

Student Representative Nora Ramstad is grateful that student Voice was emphasized so well in the Strategic Plan. Giving them the opportunity is valued. What she loves about the district and what she is grateful for is empowering students and that it’s never been a question that student voice needs to be valued.

President Rotter clarified that the board is committed to the strategic plan and that this isn't new work. The board has been laying the ground work for some time. This has been a recognized need for quite some time. The board has been instrumental in getting the pieces in place for the Strategic plan. She explained that academic data is not the only thing that we should be paying attention to. Our students of color, special education, and English language learners are the students that are not doing well and that is a majority of who we serve. The board has been focusing on equity and behind the data- those are kid. The complexity of their lives requires us to have a holistic approach. Her excitement is that the Strategic provides clarity and clear path forward. Sharing data should not be used for shame and blame. We are lucky that this district has a supportive generous community but in pockets. We have been lucky to mobilize community together from the Superintendent search. There are bright spots in our district beyond standardized testing. It is important to be looking at what is out there and what is the real data. She encouraged everyone to look at the graduation rates that have been increasing since 2017. And the trending up is students of color. Gaps are getting smaller. We have also seen encouraging trends in post-secondary enrollment. Gaps are also getting smaller for students of color. This year 19 students received their AA at the same time as diploma. That is about 5%.
  10. EXECUTIVE SESSION
A. Executive Session pursuant to RCW 42.30.110(1)(i)(g), to meet with legal counsel.
The board recessed into an Executive Session to meet with legal counsel at 7:04 pm. President Rotter said the session would last approximately 45 minutes.
  11. ADJOURNMENT
A. Adjournment - estimated time 7:00 p.m.
The board returned from the Executive Session and adjourned the meeting at 7:47 pm.
    Minutes to be approved at the upcoming Board meeting of July 11, 2024.
      ___________________________________      ________________________________________
Alyson Rotter, Board President                          James Crawford, Ed.D., Secretary to the Board
MS
     