BREMERTON SCHOOL DISTRICT 100-C
Special Board Meeting-
Naval Avenue Elementary Site Visit- 8:30 a.m.
 Monday, April 15, 2024
    Generated by Marlaina D Simmons on Wednesday, April 17, 2024
  1. CALL TO ORDER
The meeting of the Bremerton School District Board of Directors was called to order by Vice President Hurley at 9:10 a.m. The meeting was held Naval Avenue Elementary School at 900 Olympic Ave., Bremerton, WA 98312.
  Members Present:                                       Members Absent:
Mr. John P Hurley, Vice President                    Ms. Alyson L Rotter, President                     
Dr. Karen J Bolton                                            Ms. Jonee Dubos
Ms. Carolynn M Perkins
  Administrators Present:
Dr. James Crawford, Superintendent
Ms. Iva Scott, Assistant Superintendent
Ms. Brittane DeBard, Executive Director, Learning & Leadership Development
Ms. Kimberly Powell, Principal, Naval Avenue Elementary
  2. Naval Avenue Elementary School Visit
A. Meet and Greet with School Staff
  Staff Present:
Tony Avenson-Counselor
Matt Tara- PE Teacher
Samantha Johnson- First Grade Teacher
Tyler Lunde- Fifth Grade Teacher
Merle O’Hare- Library
Sharifa Marker- Support Staff
Samantha Rainey- Nurse
Jennie Penitusi- Office Coordinator
  Merle O’Hare shared her concern that book fines were supposed to be taken care of that happened during COVID, but have not yet. Some schools are attempting to collect payment
Iva Scott informed her that we don’t charge families and the fees will be waived.
Brittane DeBard said that she will communicate this with all schools.
Matt Taran shared that the school is working on getting school edible garden going. The goal is to be able to share what they are growing with student through a garden to cafeteria program. They currently have community partnerships with SNAP ED (WSU Ext). There will be a work party on April 25th work party. Community member Jennifer Green, who has a background working with nonprofits, is helping to write grants, find in kind donations and design the garden. They plan to have plants that represent North, South and Central America in the garden. They are developing a recess program where 2 master gardeners will come during recess take about 15 kids to work in garden. Once they start to produce food they will work with backpack brigade to ensure there is no waste. There is also plans to develop a Summer program.
Samantha Johnson asked if there are there any plans for a new curriculum for math and reading. Parents struggle using Eureka at home. She would like more up to date materials that are easy to align with the essential standards.
Iva Scott share that there is an organization that evaluates the materials so the ones that we currently have in place are the top-rated materials
Tyler Lunde- Explained how they work in teams across district so all 5th are doing the same things and curriculum is developed together.
B. Meet with Principal Kimberly Powell
Principal Powell share that she hasn’t been fully staffed with paras yet this year. There hasn’t been anyone applying for the open positions and she has also had some turnover. When the SPED para positions are not filled they are required to move the Gen Ed positions to SPED. But then it impacts lunch and recess schedules. Teachers are filling in to make sure there is coverage. They currently need 2 preschool, 2 Gen Ed and 2 SPED paras. The Boys and Girls club come 3 times a week and play games with kids on the playground
Director Hurley asked if there is currently any programs for students to fill these rolls for credit.
Director Hurley asked if there is anything different between the Gen Ed and SPED para positions.
Principal Powell explained that SPED is paid more and is more hours.
Principal Powell shared that they asked for parental input in the Fall. They took the data and the looked-for themes and came up with three things to use when working on their mission and vision- achievement, perseverance and connection. They also got input from students and what they need and then teachers.
Working on conscious discipline and school family to create an environment where they feel they belong
They have started Wednesday morning school family assemblies to increase attendance
Dr. Crawford asked what impacts attendance?
Principal Powell explained parents are keeping kids home more after ovid, there are a lot of kids using alarm clocks to come to school and the school has various cultures so there are some kids that go back to Guatemala or Philippines for a month to visit families
The school has aa student tracker to track each students progress related to CSIPs.
There are 245 students in the school.
C. Student Chat
15 students joined the chat- 3 first graders, 3 second graders, 4 third graders, 2 fourth graders and 3 fifth graders.
Director Hurley asked the students what a school board does?
Manage the schools
Make sure what the school does is in place
Make decisions about how the schools are going to run
Directors Hurley and Bolton explain what they can and cannot do
Director Hurley asked the students what they really like about Naval Ave?
The food
Recess
The math
PE
Dual Immersion
Reading
Friends
Lunch
Teachers
Entire School- everything!
Music
  Director Hurley asked the students, if they had a magic wand what would you change?
More veggies at lunch
More crafts
Fun classes
Soccer at recess
Play time
More stuff at recess, more balls
PS5 in every classroom
Keep Spanish Program here
Classroom versus classroom sports
Bring stuffed animal to school
More books- change the books
    Director Hurley asked the students, what are some thing they are proud of
Reading skills
Soccer skills
Books
Teacher for all she deals with
Friends
Running a soccer team at recess
Teacher
Teacher
Friends
Podcast
Math Skills
    What does dolphin song mean to you?
Dolphins are brave
We are responsible respectful, safe and also kind
The school is showing us so many things
Setting expectations of the school
Three commitments and we are safe
D. Class Tours
Principal Powell guided the board through tours of various grade level classrooms.
  E.  Parent and Community Forum
14 Parents and Community Members joined the forum
Matt Taran and Jennifer Green provided a presentation on the school garden
One parent expressed that a challenge has been the lack of a parent teachers organization (no PTA). There is a desire for a way for parents to get engaged.
A nearby intersection has been posing a safety risk for students that walk to school.
School tries to have staff out there to assist.
Some parents are parking where they shouldn’t making it hard to see.
One parent requested the school buy cones to keep people from parking in the red zones.
Director Bolton suggested coming up with more creative ways of how we can be more present.
Principal Powell shared her concerns around the legality of putting cones in the street. She also shared that for some families in the school English is a second language and they learned to drive in other countries so that can be a barrier.
One parent mentioned putting cones on the curb as a visual reminder and another mentioned having bright flags for crossing the street.
Some ways to increase safety is a need to work with the city- flashing lights, speed bumps
One parent asked if we can we let kids stay and play after school until there are less traffic and then they can walk.
There is confusion about where to park because the location changed.
A parent requested more natural light. Some windows in the classroom are all blacked out
Principal Powell shared that some classrooms are using soft lighting to create a more at home like atmosphere.
One parent requested more trees on playground. Kids huddle under the one tree when hot.
Principal Powell shared that that the school has started opening one portable that can be used in rainy, too cold or too hot weather.
One parent share that she came to naval because it was walkable (liked that), liked the library and the option of PE and music. She would also like the library open more for sitting and reading
One Parent expressed their sadness that Spanish Immersion program is moving. Their student is in 3rd grade so they are hesitant to move schools and going to an already crowded school
Dr. Crawford shared that there will be communication coming out this week
One parent requested to see the programs such as STEM, Spanish Immersion, Art available at every school.
Another expressed frustration that the bond didn’t include Naval
Director Bolton share that the district looked at every building. Its hard to say Naval has to wait but they had to prioritize based on need, enrollment.
We are also looking at potentially trying to find funding to at least have an additional space for cafeteria and gym.
Principal Powell share that the school received new 6-foot fences and a camera at the back door with a buzzer.
One parent requested that the school make it a priority to check playgrounds on Monday for unsafe paraphernalia
Principal Powell shared that they have someone that sweeps every morning
  3. ADJOURNMENT
A. Adjournment - estimated time 11:00 a.m.
At 12:32 p.m., Director Hurley adjourned the meeting.
    Minutes to be approved at the upcoming Board meeting of May 2, 2024.
    ___________________________________      ________________________________________
Alyson Rotter, Board President                          James Crawford, Ed.D., Secretary to the Board
MS
 