BREMERTON SCHOOL DISTRICT 100-C
Regular Board Meeting, 5:00 p.m.
Thursday, March 21, 2024
  Generated by Marlaina D Simmons on Friday, March 22, 2024
  1. MEETING OPENING 
The meeting of the Bremerton School District Board of Directors was called to order by President Rotter at 5:01 p.m. The meeting was held in the Boardroom located at Bremerton School District at 134 Marion Ave., Bremerton, WA 98312. 
Members Present:                                      
Ms. Alyson L Rotter, President                     
Mr. John P Hurley, Vice President
Dr. Karen J Bolton
Ms. Jonee Dubos
Ms. Carolynn M Perkins
Ms. Nora Ramstad, Student Representative to the Board
Mr. Dillon Lovestedt, Student Representative to the Board
  Administrators Present:
Dr. James Crawford, Superintendent
Ms. Iva Scott, Assistant Superintendent
Dr. Garth Steedman, Assistant Superintendent
Mr. Jon Bell, Director, Community Support & Special Education
Ms. Kelsey McCreary, Assistant Director of Special Education & Early Learning 
Ms. Julie Fairall, Assistant Director, State and Federal Programs
Ms. Teneka Morley-Short, Principal, West Hills STEM Academy 
Ms. Carol Bailie, Supervisor, Human Resources
Ms. Cynthia Cantwell, Assistant Director of Assessment and Data Literacy
Ms. Cathie Seevers, Director of Finance
Ms. Patty Glaser, School Safety and Support Supervisor
Ms. Brittane DeBard, Executive Director of Learning and Leadership Development
  B. Land Acknowledgement
Director Bolton read the Land Acknowledgement and explained the importance of the public acknowledgement.
    C. Pledge of Allegiance
Director Perkins led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Action: D. Approval of Agenda
Superintendent Crawford stated that there were changes to the Human Resources Report. Director Perkins moved to approve the Agenda as presented.  The motion carried unanimously.
  2. BOARD RECOGNITION
A. Middle School Winter Sports Update
Mountain View Middle School Athletics Director Mitchell Judie presented highlights and student successes from winter sports. Winter sports included Co-Ed Wrestling and Girls Basketball.
  B. School Retiree Appreciation Week
Governor Jay Inslee has declared the week of March 18-24, 2024 as School Retirees Appreciation Week. President Rotter read the Proclamation.
    3. CONSENT AGENDA
President Rotter presented the Consent Agenda for questions or comments.  There were none.  The Consent Agenda included: A. Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of March 7, 2024, B. Minutes of the Special Board Meeting / Study Session of March 16, 2024, C. Payroll for issue date March 15, 2024, D. Human Resources Report, E. Vouchers; February 2024, F. Acceptance of Donations, G. Resolution 2023/2024-15; Surplus School Bus, H. WSP USA Environment & Infrastructure, Inc. Contract Change #3 for WST. Director Bolton moved to approve the Consent Agenda as presented.  The motion carried unanimously.
    4. REPORTS
A. Student Report
Student Representatives to the Board Nora Ramstad and Dillon Lovestedt presented a report to the Board covering recent and upcoming Bremerton High School athletic and school events. A few highlights from their presentation include:
Baseball, Softball, boys Soccer and girls Tennis have kicked off!
Choir Concert where attendees were able to hear state competition solos
“She Kills Monsters” wrapped up last weekend and made over $1000
DCON- BHS Key Club traveled to DCON in Portland
AP Gov Class went on a field trip to Olympia with Rep Greg Nance
B. Board Reports
Director Perkins- Shared that she enjoyed receiving an update on the Strategic Planning process and appreciates how many people have been included in the process- students, community, staff.
  Director Dubos- Thanked Iva Scott, Kelsey McCreary, Cynthia Cantwell and Melissa Rohr for their time and work they put into the 2000s Policy study sessions.
  Director Bolton- WST connecting with people in our community was amazing and seeing the people that lead the project and nice to see legislators there to support. Leg session ended well. and all 4 priority areas received increases in funding. The bills or budget areas listed below are either already signed by or on their way to the Governor to be enacted into law and, of course, WSSDA engaged heavily on these issues related to your priorities:
Ample, Equitable, and Stable Public Education
ESHB 2494: Increasing state funding for operating costs in schools.
2SSB 5882: Increasing prototypical school staffing to better meet student needs.
Advance Special Education
SHB 2180: Increasing the special education enrollment funding cap.
SB 5852: Special education safety net awards.
SJM 8007: Requesting Congress to fully fund 40 percent of the costs of IDEA.
Build Safe and Healthy Schools
ESSB 5949
Small District and Tribal Compact Schools Modernization
2023‐25 Distressed Schools
Career and Technical Education Projects
E2SHB 1956: Fentanyl and other substance use prevention education.
Transport and Feed Students
ESSB 5950 (Conference Proposal, p. 9)
Pupil Transportation and Buses
Student Meals (Community Eligibility Program)
Director Hurley thanked Dr. Steedman for representing Bremerton School District at the West Sound Tech groundbreaking ceremony. He also enjoyed Strategic Planning update and commented how exciting it was to see how far we have come since November.
  President Rotter- Attended the “What's Next” event held at Olympic College (that shows students CTE pathways) and BSD sent a large number of students. A total of 275 came. She gave a shutout to Chris Swanson and commented that she is impressed with the work he does with our students and beyond. OC also hosted “Girls exploring Math and Science”. There were 115 middle school girls came to OC and BSD was a big supporter of the event and sent many students. She shared that Strategic Planning is producing some quality experiences and it’s exciting to be a part of. During the 2000s Policy Study Session she felt good about the deep conversations and seeing everyone working together. She also attended the PACT meeting and enjoys the notion of what it means -Police and Community Coming together. Putting names and faces behind the badges. AVID engaged in deep work around cell phones- brain science, multitasking, addiction- and she found it interesting to hear youth perspectives. She emphasized the importance that this isn’t a top down decision and that student voice and buy in is crucial.
  C. Superintendent's Report
No report was provided.
  D. General Fund Balance Status
Dr. Steedman provided the General Fund balance status as of the end of February
Last year versus this year- we have had some increased costs that were not anticipated such as extra needs with students/SPED
  The goal is still be to finish the year money in and money out. Funds will go back up next month with levy collection
Director Dubos asked- Do you anticipate any budget cuts?
Dr. Steedman shared that this time of year we always run in the negative and that he does not anticipate big budget cuts. We have a fun balance but might not need to dive into that too much. Safety Net money will come this summer- funds that come from the state that are reimbursable for services
Director Bolton asked-Do you think some of the things that are passing will help us with revenue?
Dr. Steedman responded- MSOC helps about $100,000 so majority of our classified staff still comes out of local dollars.
Director Hurley asked- can money carry over?
Dr. Steedman responded- There are some funds that can be recaptured by the state but we work hard to make sure that doesn't happen. If there are extra funds, they go into the fun balance
  5. DISCUSSION/ACTION ITEMS
A. Policy 4260; Use of School Facilities (1st reading)
This policy was previously adjusted so groups to use alcohol when using district space. Dr. Steedman recommends that is removed so we do not have alcohol consumed on school grounds.
  There were no questions. Director Perkins moved to approve the policy as presented. President Rotter queried the student representatives for their advisory votes.  Both Nora and Dillon voted aye.  There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  

    B. Highly Capable Program Plan 2023-24
Our District plan for Highly Capable identification and services is annually submitted to OSPI and requires school board approval. The 2023-24 OSPI plan was released late this year as the requirements were updated to reflect new law regarding services for students identified as Highly Capable (Senate Bill 5072). Our plan aligns with the update in our Policy #2190 to expand universal screening to two grade levels prior to 6th grade. There were no questions. Director Bolton moved to approve the plan as presented. President Rotter queried the student representatives for their advisory votes.  Both Nora and Dillon voted aye.  There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  
  C. Resolution 2023/2024-14; Educational Program Reduction in Force
Resolution proposes the cut of the Culinary Arts Program at West Sound Tech. Enrollment is down and because of construction, there is no space right now. Dr. Steedman recommended shutting down the program for 24-25 school year then look at enrollment
Director Dubos asked how many staff impacted. Dr. Steedman responded- one.
One
Audience question- Has there been any investigation of combining with OC culinary program? Dr. Steedman- yes, it’s currently happening but enrollment is the bigger issue
Students approve
  Director Dubos moved to approve the resolution as presented. President Rotter queried the student representatives for their advisory votes.  Both Nora and Dillon voted aye.  There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  
6. WRITTEN REPORTS
Noted: A. Annual Building Condition Assessment.
Director Hurley commented that based on ages of buildings we take really good care of them and commended John Fisher and additional facilities staff.
  7. CALENDAR OF EVENTS
A. Important Dates
Upcoming events were noted.
  8. PUBLIC INPUT
A. Request to Address the Board
Mary Lou Long spoke about the restriction of cell phones in our classes and how cell phones take away from learning time.
  9. BOARD REFLECTIONS
A. Directors' reflections on this evening's meeting.
Director Hurley shared that hearing about middle school sports one of Fav things. It is the first opportunity for some kids to participate in sports because there is typically a cost. At Mountain View they can play for cost of ASB or that can be waived. Sports create team building and friend building and brings youth together. His daughter went to girls in STEM event at OC and it was a great experience. He appreciates them getting those opportunities. He hopes that the culinary program is a short blip and that hopefully we can get the kids back in the program with the new building and new industrial kitchen.
Nora Ramstad shared that she found the Strategic Planning experience so valuable and that it was interesting comparing the perspectives of community, staff and students.
Dillon Lovestedt commented that it was nice to see so many community members come together for Strategic Planning.
Director Perkins shared that she is a huge sport advocate. They are so critical and the team becomes a family. She appreciates all the coaches. She thanked Director for being the legislative rep and commented that she has gone above and beyond. She shows passion in her participation
Director Dubos also thanked Director Bolton.
Director Bolton shared that she thought the sports presentation was amazing and that she loves that BSD allows kids to play for free. There is a lot of pride in the ability to represent your school. She also shared that when it comes to cell phones policies, she will not vote for any policy unless students have a voice in it.
Superintendent Crawford thanked the community for the time they have spent on Strategic Planning. It is a big investment in our school district and he is excited for what is ahead.
  10. ADJOURNMENT
A. Adjournment - estimated time 6:30 p.m.
At 6:09 p.m., Director Perkins made a motion to adjourn.  The motion carried unanimously and the meeting was adjourned at 6:09 p.m.
  Minutes to be approved at the upcoming Board meeting of April 11, 2024.
      ___________________________________      ________________________________________
Alyson Rotter, Board President                          James Crawford, Ed.D., Secretary to the Board
MS
                 