BREMERTON SCHOOL DISTRICT 100-C
Regular Board Meeting 5:00 p.m.
Thursday, August 15, 2024
  Generated by Marlaina D Simmons on Friday, August 16, 2024
  MEETING OPENING 
The meeting of the Bremerton School District Board of Directors was called to order by President Rotter at 5:10 p.m. The meeting was held in the Boardroom located at Bremerton School District at 134 Marion Ave., Bremerton, WA 98312. 
    Members Present:                                      
Ms. Alyson L Rotter, President                       
Ms. Karen Bolton
Ms. Jonee Dubos
Ms. Carolynn M Perkins
Mr. John P Hurley, Vice President
  Administrators Present:
Dr. Garth Steedman, Acting Superintendent
Ms. Teneka Morley-Short, Principal, West Hills STEM Academy 
Ms. Patty Glaser, Supervisor, School Safety & Security
Ms. Brittane DeBard, Executive Director of Learning and Leadership Development
Ms. Iva Scott, Assistant Superintendent
Ms. Karen Bevers, Director of Communications
Ms. Carol Bailie, Human Resources Supervisor
Ms. Merridith Stevens, Director of Finance
  B. Land Acknowledgement
Director Hurley read the Land Acknowledgement and explained the importance of the public acknowledgement.
  C. Pledge of Allegiance
Director Perkins led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Action: D. Approval of Agenda
Director Bolton moved to approve the Agenda as presented.  The motion carried unanimously.
2. PUBLIC INPUT
A. Request to Address the Board
Betty Hyde- Spoke against hiring an interim Superintendent.

Eric Morley- Spoke on behalf of the Citizens Against the School Board Coalition. He expressed concerns around transparency and governance practices.

Scott Alexander- Requested that the board release the investigation report from July 11th.

Lynn Horton- Spoke about the recording of board meetings.

Roland Perry-West Sound Pickleball Club- spoke about the promise made by Dr. Crawford that if they helped pass the bond, he would build Pickleball Court.
  3. CONSENT AGENDA
President Rotter presented the Consent Agenda for questions or comments. The Consent Agenda included: A. Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of August 1, 2024, B. Minutes of the Special Meeting- Executive Session August 12. 2024, C. Payroll for Issue Date August 15, 2024, D. Human Resources Report 2023/24-19, E. Vouchers for July 2024, F. Personal Service Contract, G. New Policy 6217; Electronic Funds Transfer (2nd reading), H. New Policy 6225; Use of Electronic Signature (2nd reading), I. Revised Policy 1400- Meeting Conduct, Order of Business and Quorum (2nd reading), J. Washington Youth Academy Working Agreement Addendum.
I move to approve the Consent Agenda as presented. Director Perkins moved to approve the Consent Agenda as presented.  The motion carried unanimously.
  4. PUBLIC HEARING - 2024/2025 PROPOSED BUDGET
A. Report on Proposed 2024/2025 District Budget
Dr. Steedman presented the proposed budget for the 2024/2025 school year.
  The district has seen an increase in enrollment
  Current budget challenges are a loss of ESSER funds, insufficient funding in SPED, and higher operating costs
  The annual budget is approximately 100 million
  We are projected to have a 11,512,260 balance in the general fund
  We will be 2.6 million in the red


Questions from the board-
Director Hurley- What practices will we do to meet deficit? Dr. Steedman responded that a lot can be done through attrition but it may lead to some RIFS.
Director Bolton- Commented that our schools very old and we are taking care of worst first, but how are we going to address the rest of them? Dr. Steedman shared that Facilities Director John Fisher will continue to maintain our building but at this time the most important thing is to deliver on current jobs related to the bond and that we could go for a capitol levy in the future.

B. Recess for Public comment
President Rotter recessed the meeting for public comment at 5:42 p.m.
  C. Receive Public Comment
Betty Hyde asked if there will there be proactive cuts? Dr. Steedman responded that the district will look at enrollment numbers to get idea of staff and duplicative programs/services that can be cut.

Lynn Horton asked for clarification on slides 6&7 and the footnote that states the numbers do not include the Kennedy Case settlement. Dr. Steedman responded that the Kennedy case and wasn't included in Central Office numbers but that it is represented in the 2.6 million deficit.

Director Dubos asked if we would be cutting programs at the high school with low enrollment. Dr. Steedman responded that some cuts had been done but it was delayed due to focus on bond and levy. We will revisit it after looking at enrollment around October 1st.
  D. Reconvene Meeting
President Rotter reconvened the meeting at 5:47 p.m.
  5. DISCUSSION/ACTION ITEMS
A. Resolution 2023/2024-27; 2024/2025 Budget (Roll Call Vote)
Director Dubos made a motion to approve Resolution 2023/2024-27, adopting the 2024/2025 Budget along with the 4-year budget and enrollment projection as presented. President Rotter conducted a roll call vote and the motion carried unanimously.
  B. Resolution 2023/2024-28; Compensation and Benefits
The district is still in bargaining negotiations with teacher and classified staff (on a 180 calendar). This resolution allows them to continue it negotiations into the school year but any changes would be for the entire school year.
  Director Bolton made a motion to approve Resolution 2023/2024-28, Compensation and Benefits, as presented. The motion carried unanimously.
  C. Policy 2170- Career and Technical Education
Melissa Rohr presented revised policy 2170 for approval. This policy was last updated in 2009.  The language/vocabulary used in the policy were changed to be in line with current terms. There was also a change to include specific instructions on setting up local advisory board.

Director Perkins made a motion to approve Policy 2170- Career and Technical Education as presented. The motion carried unanimously.
  D. Policy 2413- Equivalency Credit Opportunities
Melissa Rohr presented Policy 2413- Equivalency Credit Opportunities was approval. This policy was updated in 2022 but there have now been additional legislative changes. The policy is no longer not just for CTE, it also includes experiential learning, mastery credits and paid working experiences.

Director Bolton asked how the changes will be communicated to students. Melissa Rohr responded that she will work with counseling staff to get the information to them and that she has already been in communication with our Communications Director as well.

President Rotter commented that the 24-credit diploma doesn't allow much flexibility for students’ schedules.
  Director Bolton made a motion to approve Policy 2413- Equivalency Credit Opportunities as presented.
  E. Policy 2000-Student Learning Goals
Assistant Superintendent Iva Scott presented Policy 2000-Student Learning Goals for approval. WSSDA updated the policy in 2018. Minor changes were made around language and to provide clarity. We updated the policy to align language with our Strategic Plan.

Director Perkins commented that she likes that they identify PK-3rd grade.

Director Bolton asked if it was well received by principals. Assistant Superintendent Iva responded that it was well received and that there was a lot of energy in the room.
  Director Hurley made a motion to approve Policy 2000 as presented. The motion carried unanimously.
  F. Policy 2005- School Improvement Plans
Assistant Superintendent Iva Scott presented 2005- School Improvement Plans. The policy was updated to align with the Strategic Plan and include goals.

President Rotter commented that she is excited to see the alignment coming through.
  Director Bolton made a motion to approve revised Policy 2005 as presented. The motion carried unanimously.
  G. Interim Appointment
President Rotter and the board discussed their interviews with three candidates for Interim Superintendent on August 12th.
  Director Hurley made a motion to select Donna Colosky to serve as the Interim Superintendent as of 8/26/24. The motion carried unanimously.
  6. REPORTS / DISCUSSION ONLY
A. Board Reports
All Directors expressed their excitement for the new Mountainview Middle School Complex and the start of a new school year.
  7. WRITTEN REPORTS
A. 1400P: Meetings - Conduct, Order of Business and Quorum
Procedure 1400P was revised to include the new meeting recording requirements and align with revised Policy 1400.
  8. CALENDAR OF EVENTS - BACK TO SCHOOL
A. Important Dates to Remember
Upcoming events were noted.
  9. BOARD REFLECTIONS
A. Directors' Reflections on this Evening's Meeting
Director Perkins expressed that she gets upset with the lack of commitment from the state to provide adequate funding for IDEA and MSOC. Costs have gone up 40% and we are getting the same amount of money from the state.

Director Dubos wished Marilyn McClelland (Bremerton High School Office Coordinator) happy retirement. She welcomed all the new teachers to the district and thanked Dr. Steedman for his preparation of the budget.

Director Bolton shared that she takes offense that the board has no integrity. She doesn’t plan to resign and always put students first and protect staff. She also welcomed new teachers and educators.

Director Hurley shared that students should always be front and center and that is what came through in interviews for an interim as well as the need for healing. He is excited about all the new educators. He also took offense to his integrity being called out. He also said that he needs to explore the conversation with the Pickleball Coalition further and if any promises were made.
President Rotter explained part of why public comment was changed was to the end of the meeting was because of people not staying around for rest of meeting. The board is constantly discussing the right thing to do. She also noted that none of those that made public comment stayed once again. She said that she takes her code of ethic very seriously and has been elected three times by the majority of voters which shows belief that she has the best interest of students in mind. She reminded everyone that although they are individual elected officials they do not get to act as individuals. They have to make decisions as a board. She finds it disappointing that those coming to comment now have never been here before in her 11 years. She also addressed the irony that they participated in Strategic Planning and they discussed values that they claim to be committed to yet the model behavior counter to that of the portrait of graduate and values. They are operating legally and ethically and when they can they will share info. She also expressed significant concerns about the promises made to the pickle ball coalition. A Superintendent cannot unilaterally make agreements with organizations or people. The board has to be involved in decision making of use of funds.
10. ADJOURNMENT
A. Expected End Time: 6:30 p.m.
At 6:37 Director Perkins made a motion to adjourn.  The motion carried unanimously and the meeting was adjourned at 6:37 p.m.
      ___________________________________      ________________________________________
Alyson Rotter, Board President                          Donna Colosky, Secretary to the Board
MS
     