Blaine School District No. 503
  Regular Board Meeting
Tuesday, December 13, 2022
  Minutes
  1. Regular Board Meeting
A. Call to Order
President Thomas called the meeting to order, in the district boardroom, at 12:00 p.m.
All directors were in attendance.
     Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  B. Pledge of Allegiance
President Thomas led in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  C. Board Comments on the Agenda
President Thomas shared comments related to the large number of retirees and resignations on this meeting's consent agenda. He expressed appreciation for the combined 129 years of service and commitment represented by the retiring staff members whose long-term service in Blaine School District has positively impacted the schools as well as the community. Director Gibson concurred.
  2. Good News
A. Thank You Todd Nunamaker!
President Thomas expressed his appreciation for the service and dedication of former Director Todd Nunamaker. He also relayed a message of thanks from Mr. Nunamaker. Dr. Granger added that it was Mr. Nunamaker's desire not to be recognized publicly, but he will be receiving a custom plaque from the district, and his name has been added to the wall of past directors.
  B. Presentation of Seasonal Entertainment
After the business meeting, seasonal musical entertainment was provided by the high school's chamber choir, directed by Andy Marshall.
  3. Public Comment
A. Public Comment
No members of the public addressed the board at this meeting.
  4. Reports
A. Regular Monthly Reports
Regular monthly reports were delayed until the January 2023 meeting.
  B. Superintendent's Report
Dr. Christopher Granger provided an update which included information on the following topics.
He expressed his gratitude for the efforts of all the district's staff and administrators who contribute to the great work being done in Blaine schools. Dr. Granger expressed his wish for everyone to enjoy the holidays and a restful winter break. He hopes all will return refreshed in January.
Dr. Granger provided an update on the administrators' work in areas of the solution-based roadmap which resulted from August's staff survey. At the November meeting, the directors heard about building staff morale with potlucks. Meaningful professional development is also being provided for teachers. Work in the areas of diversity, equity, and inclusion is underway. Student advisory input, as part of the DEI work, has been received for grades 3-12 and there will be a meeting soon with student representatives at the K-2 level.
  5. Consent Agenda
The board approved all items listed on the Consent Agenda.
  A. Approval of Minutes - November 28, 2022 Regular Board Meeting
The board approved the minutes of the November 28, 2022 Regular Board Meeting.
Motion by Erika Creydt, second by Dougal Thomas
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Yea: Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  B. Personnel Matters
The board approved the recommended Personnel Matters.
Motion by Erika Creydt, second by Dougal Thomas
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Yea: Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  C. Financial Matters
The board approved Financial Matters as detailed on the Consent Agenda.
Motion by Erika Creydt, second by Dougal Thomas
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Yea: Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  D. Student Travel
The board approved the following Student Travel requests:
HS Boys Wrestling to Hammer Head Tournament (Dec. 15-17)
HS Boys Wrestling to Gut Check Tournament (Jan. 5-7)
HS Boys Wrestling to Island Tournament (Jan. 13-14)
HS Boys Wrestling to Quincy Tournament (Jan. 20-21)
Motion by Erika Creydt, second by Dougal Thomas
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Yea: Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  E. Contracts & Agreements
The board approved the 2023-2026 Regional Education Agreement with DCYF.
Motion by Erika Creydt, second by Dougal Thomas
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Yea: Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  6. Action Items
A. Reorganization of the Board: Election of Officers
Pursuant to Policy 1210, the board elected a president and a vice president to serve one-year terms, as well as a legislative representative for a two-year term.

President Thomas called for nominations for president.
Director Gibson nominated Dougal Thomas. The nomination was seconded by Director Leu.
There were no further nominations and the president was elected by a roll call vote.
Roll Call Vote: Directors Leu, Creydt, Gibson, and Thomas voted in favor of election.
President Thomas declared the 4-0 vote.

President Thomas called for nominations for vice president.
Director Leu nominated Charles Gibson. The nomination was seconded by President Thomas.
There were no further nominations and the vice president was elected by a roll call vote.
Roll Call Vote: Directors Leu, Creydt, Gibson, and Thomas voted in favor of election.
President Thomas declared the 4-0 vote.

President Thomas called for nominations for legislative representative.
Director Leu nominated Erika Creydt. The nomination was seconded by President Thomas.
There were no further nominations and the legislative representative was elected by a roll call vote.
Roll Call Vote: Directors Leu, Creydt, Gibson, and Thomas voted in favor of election.
President Thomas declared the 4-0 vote.

President Thomas expressed his appreciation for the other directors' trust in him. He looks forward to working with Vice President Gibson.

The meeting continued, following the published agenda.
  7. Board Comments and Future Meeting(s)
A. General Comments
President Thomas commented on the decision to extend the application deadline for the vacant board position in Director District 1. One application has been received so far. He hopes that additional applicants will step forward so that the board can choose from a pool of candidates.
  B. Future Meeting(s) and Agenda Suggestions
On Wednesday, January 4, the board anticipates holding a special meeting for the purpose of interviewing Director District 1 candidates and taking action on the appointment of a new director. Public notice of this special meeting will be provided in advance. Current members of the board will arrive at 5:00 p.m. for dinner. Candidates will be invited to arrive for interviews starting at 5:30 p.m.

The next Regular Board Meeting is on Monday, January 23, 2023 at 7:00 p.m.

Suggestions for agenda items include:
New Director Oath of Office
High School Student Report
School Administrator Reports
Enrollment Update and Financial Report
Superintendent's Report
Policy Updates
  8. Executive Session
A. Executive Session
There was no executive session at this meeting.
  9. Adjourn
A. Adjourn
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 12:15 p.m. by a unanimous vote.
Motion by Charles E Gibson, second by Dougal Thomas
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Yea: Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  DATE MINUTES APPROVED: January 23, 2023
   
                         ________________________________                            ________________________________
                                      BOARD PRESIDENT                                                               SECRETARY/CLERK