Blaine School District No. 503
  Policy Work Session
Wednesday, February 9, 2022
  Minutes
  1. Policy Work Session
A. Call to Order and Review of Purpose
In accordance with guidelines related to the COVID-19 pandemic emergency, this work session was conducted with both virtual and in-person components. President Thomas opened the work session at 5:00 p.m. The Director District 5 position was vacant at the time of this work session. The other four directors were in attendance.
     Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Charles E Gibson, Erika Creydt

President Thomas stated the purpose of this work session which was to review and discuss updates to the 1000 series of the district’s policy manual.
  2. Work Session Content
A. Policy Review and Discussion
Superintendent Dr. Christopher Granger explained that the policy updates, with the exception of Policy 1405 and its procedure, have been drafted by WSSDA to align with their model policy manual pursuant to the district’s contract for Policy Manual Review Services. There was discussion regarding WSSDA's role in assisting the district with policy development, as well as the district's general process for policy review and adoption.

The directors then reviewed each policy in the 1000 series, discussing the application and relevance of both existing and new policy language. There was a brief, 5-minute break at 6:10 p.m.
1005 Key Functions of the Board: Directors Gibson and Creydt questioned the recommendation to strike certain language. After discussion to clarify these revisions, all agreed to accept the recommended changes which continue to address advocacy and accountability to the community with new wording that aligns with the best practices of the Washington School Board Standards.
1105 Electoral System: Director Creydt questioned the rationale for striking certain language and discussion followed. Dr. Granger explained that the new language reflects the most recent statutory language which will likely change again when the district repeats this process ten years from now.
1112 Director Orientation: Director Creydt questioned the rational for striking language related to the superintendent. There was discussion regarding the wording adjustment, and it was clarified that new language appears in red text on the document mark-up.
1210 Annual Organizational Meeting: Dr. Granger informed the board that consideration is currently being given to moving this meeting to January and moving the annual superintendent review process to December. However, this change was not part of the current language adjustment. Dr. Granger also explained that, when the board takes action to adopt these updates to the 1000 series, the board will concurrently be asked to extend Director Gibson's term as legislative representative to the December or January organizational meeting pursuant to the new policy language. Discussion followed regarding the responsibilities of the board's legislative representative.
1220 Board Officers and Duties of Board Members: Director Creydt questioned the rationale for striking language that directs the president to confer with individual board members regarding urgent sensitive issues. Discussion followed and Dr. Granger explained that the language implies an authorization for the board to hold discussions in secret instead of in an open public meeting. Director Creydt expressed a desire for the policy's language to encourage discussion among directors. President Thomas clarified that there is no language restricting appropriate discussion between directors. He added that the language being stricken is specific to urgent sensitive issues, and he expressed concern that the language could provide an excuse for straw-polling or for directors to inappropriately confer on matters in secret. The other directors expressed similar concerns, and Dr. Granger offered to seek further clarification from WSSDA about this recommended change.
1430 Audience Participation: The district adopted modifications to Policy 1400 in December 2018 which absorbed updated language from Policy 1430 regarding audience participation. WSSDA has recommended deleting Policy 1430.
1620 The Board-Superintendent Relationship and Related Operating Principles: Each director voiced appreciation for the clear language and direction provided in this policy and its related procedure. President Thomas commended Director Gibson and the former directors who collaborated with WSSDA on developing this language in 2018. There was discussion regarding the board's role in governing, but not managing, the work being done in the schools. President Thomas reiterated that the district's day-to-day operations are not the role of the board to manage. He also referenced the importance of communicating using the appropriate chain of command, and he mentioned how important it is for the board and the superintendent to avoid surprising each other. Director Creydt referenced her appreciation for the clear description of boundaries which lay out what is in the scope of the board and what is in the scope of the superintendent. She also referenced the School Board's Norms and the importance of upholding those aspirations. There was discussion regarding the procedure's reference to a "Citizen Complaint" policy. Director Creydt suggested that a standard form be provided for parents and community members. The other directors and Dr. Granger agreed that a form can be impersonal, and historically complaints have been resolved through personal interaction and dialogue. President Thomas referenced the clear outline of how to address complaints in Policy 4220, and he suggested adding a link to that policy where it is referenced in Procedure 1620P. There was also discussion regarding the value of having the full board attend WSSDA's annual conference.
1733 Board Member Compensation: Director Gibson indicated that, prior to his becoming a board member, the board decided as a group not to accept compensation.
1805 Open Government Trainings: Dr. Granger explained that the district has been following the legal requirement for training since it was mandated in 2014. This new policy aligns with current practice.
1820P - Evaluation of the Board: Director Creydt pointed out that the language has not been updated in this procedure to align with changes to Policy 1005.
1822 Training and Professional Development for Board Members: Dr. Granger explained that the newly mandated training for Cultural Competency, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion is currently only offered by WSSDA in person. President Thomas suggested that the board attend the new training as part of a mini retreat.
1815 Ethical Conduct for School Directors and 1825 Addressing School Director Violations: WSSDA has provided these new model policies in response to recent events that have impacted school districts throughout the state of Washington.
  The board directed Dr. Granger to provide the following information and adjustments prior to First Reading of these updates at the February 28 meeting.
1220 Board Officers and Duties of Board Members: Seek clarification from WSSDA regarding the recommendation to strike language as referenced above.
1620P The Board-Superintendent Relationship and Related Operating Principles: Add a link to Policy 4220 where the "Citizen Complaint policy" is referenced in this procedure.
1820P - Evaluation of the Board: Update this procedure's language to eliminate conflict with modifications to Policy 1005.
  3. Adjournment
A. Close Work Session
At the regular meeting on February 28, 2022, the board will be asked to approve First Reading of updates to the 1000 series of the district's policy manual.
  Discussion resumed regarding Director Creydt's request for a citizen complaint form. President Thomas asked the other directors to review Policy 4220 and its procedure so that the board could discuss at the February 28 meeting whether all are in agreement about the need for a form to clarify the complaint process. Discussion continued regarding Director Creydt's request for the use of a form, as well as individual directors' roles in addressing community member complaints.

President Thomas closed the work session at 7:44 p.m.
   
                         ________________________________                            ________________________________
                                      BOARD PRESIDENT                                                               SECRETARY/CLERK