Minutes from the Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
Monday, March 11, 2024
The Board of Directors held a Regular Board Meeting on Monday, March 11, 2024. This meeting
was held in-person and virtually via a Zoom link posted on the Mead School District website.
Directors Cannon, Gray, Nolan and Killman were present. Director Burchard was excused. Also
attending were Superintendent Travis Hanson, Chief Financial Officer Heather Ellingson and
Assistant Superintendents Heather Havens and Jared Hoadley.
I.
Pledge of Allegiance
The meeting began with President Cannon asking all to rise for the Pledge of Allegiance.
II.
Approval of Agenda
Director Gray made a motion to approve the meeting agenda, as presented. Director Killman
seconded the motion. The motion carried unanimously.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Director Nolan made a motion to approve the minutes of the February 12, 2024 Regular Board
Meeting, February 16, 2024 Special Board Meeting and February 26, 2024 Work Session, as
presented. Director Gray seconded the motion. The motion carried unanimously.
IV.
Remarks for the Good of the Schools – Public Comment on Agenda Items
President Cannon first opened the floor for high school ASB updates. This was followed by
board/staff comments. There were no individuals who signed up to speak on agenda items.
Mt. Spokane High School Report
Next year’s ASB President Jayson Bonnett presented a brief review of the academic, athletic,
leadership and music events recently completed and upcoming at Mt. Spokane High School.
Spring sports are underway with golf and baseball recently competing in preseason events in the
Tri Cities, Dave Wagenblast (varsity boys basketball) earned 3A Coach of the Year honors and
seven DECA students qualified for Nationals. The ASB class, whose goal is to make Mt. Spokane
High School warm and inviting for all students, is in the midst of planning for Senior Prom that
will have a Roaring Twenties theme. In closing, Mr. Bonnett shared he is excited to serve the Mt.
Spokane High School community.
Mead High School Report
Three of Mead High School’s newly elected ASB officers were in attendance (Jaeland Leman –
Public Relations, Nash Dunham – Vice President and Sophia Ji - Treasurer) and presented a brief
review of the academic, athletic, leadership and music events recently completed and upcoming
at Mead High School. The first ever Cultural Night, that took place on March 6th, was a huge
success, ASB is planning for Coffee House (student talent show) and, like at Mt. Spokane, Spring
Sports are underway. The Girls Basketball Team placed 2nd at state, eleven DECA students
qualified for Nationals and cheerleaders, as a fundraiser, are sponsoring the upcoming Spring
Fling dance.

Board/Staff Comments
Director Gray, who attended the recent Mead Learning Options Outdoor Program fundraiser, was
very complimentary of the event noting it was not only very well done but also well attended.
She expressed appreciation that the district is able to offer choice programs like this for
students.
President Cannon, who also attended the Outdoor Program fundraiser, concurred it was an
excellent event and related a fun exchange he had with a student who plans to go to Mars. He
extended congratulations to the Mead High School Girls Basketball Team on their 2nd place state
finish and the Mt. Spokane Boys Basketball Team on their 3rd place state finish. Noting March 1115 is Education Support Professionals Week, President Cannon, on behalf of the board, thanked
these employees for their work noting they provide invaluable services to Mead students.
V.

Continuing Business
A.
Consent Agenda A – 2nd Reading Policy/Procedure Adoptions &
Revisions
President Cannon, prior to asking for a motion to approve Consent Agenda A, which includes
two policies/procedures that were presented for first reading consideration on February 12,
2024, noted no first reading changes were recommended. He shared background/context for
having policies, where no first reading changes are recommended, be approved as part of a
stand-alone second reading Consent Agenda. Each of these policies is considered essential by
WSSDA.
Director Killman made a motion to approve Consent Agenda A, as presented. Director Gray
seconded the motion. The motion carried unanimously.
Consent Agenda A
1.

Approved the following 2nd Reading Policy/Procedure Adoptions:
•
•

Policy/Procedure 4400 Adoption – Election Activities
Policy/Procedure 4218 Adoption – Language Access

B.

2nd Reading Policy 3141 Revision
Non-Resident Students
Superintendent Travis Hanson presented a revision to Policy 3141, Non-Resident Students, for
second reading consideration. This policy was adopted on March 27, 1991 and was last revised
on June 13, 2016.
The presented revision adds language stating that non-resident applications received after
August 15th will be evaluated for acceptance after the first day of school.
Based on first reading board feedback, language regarding balancing enrollment and annually
evaluating which schools are able to accommodate non-resident students has been removed. The
language now simply states that the Mead School District welcomes non-resident students and
that all requests for non-resident enrollment will be considered on an equal basis, except as
noted in the policy.
Following discussion, Director Nolan made a motion to approve the revision to Policy 3141, NonResident Students, as presented. Director Gray seconded the motion. The motion carried
unanimously.

C.

2nd Reading Procedure 3131 Revision
Assignments to Schools
Superintendent Travis Hanson presented a revision to Procedure 3131, Assignments to Schools,
for second reading consideration. This policy was adopted on May 10, 1978 and was last revised
on November 20, 2006.
In the Elementary intra-district transfer section, following discussion that took place after the
February 12th first reading of the procedure revision, the second reading revision language now
states that approved intra-district transfer students will be considered a resident of their new
attendance boundary. This eliminates the need to reapply each year to remain at the new
elementary school.
Regarding the transition from elementary school to middle school or high school, while transfers
will not carry over, a sentence has been added to that section of the procedure stating that
priority will be given to transfer requests from students that are currently attending the feeder
system requested.
Following discussion, that included the board affirming the change that removes the need to
reapply for an intra-district transfer annually at the elementary level, Director Gray made a
motion to approve the revision to Procedure 3131, Assignments to Schools, as presented.
Director Nolan seconded the motion. The motion carried unanimously.
VI.

New Business
A. Consent Agenda B
President Cannon directed attention to donations listed on the Consent Agenda. After reading
the name and donation amount from each community partner, he expressed thanks and
appreciation for their generosity.
Director Gray made a motion to approve Consent Agenda B, as presented. Director Nolan
seconded the motion. The motion carried unanimously.
Consent Agenda B
1.

Hired Certificated Personnel:
Correna Cockrill

Special Services

Cert

Elizabeth Pipkin

Mead High School

Cert

Karly Wittkopp

Mead High School

Cert

Skyler Lamberd

Mead High School

Cert

Jason Tebbets

Mead High School

Cert

Keith Ross

Mead High School

Cert

Susan Chandler

Mead High School

Cert

Rex Freed

Mead High School

Cert

Julie Mitchell

Farwell

Cert

Angela Neumiller

Student & Family Services

Cert

1.0 FTE Continuing Resource Room Teacher
effective 1/29/24
1.0 FTE Continuing Design Studio English Teacher
effective 1/29/24 (replaces continuing position at
Northwood)
.2 FTE Leave Replacement Math Teacher 2nd
semester 23/24 (in addition to .8 FTE Continuing)
.2 FTE Non-Continuing Super Contract Math
Teacher 2nd semester 23/24 (in addition to 1.0 FTE
Continuing)
.2 FTE Non-Continuing Super Contract Math
Teacher 2nd semester 23/24 (in addition to 1.0 FTE
Continuing)
.2 FTE Non-Continuing Super Contract Math
Teacher 2nd semester 23/24 (in addition to 1.0 FTE
Continuing)
.2 FTE Non-Continuing Super Contract Math
Teacher 2nd semester 23/24 (in addition to 1.0 FTE
Continuing)
1.0 FTE Leave Replacement Social Studies Teacher
effective 2/1/24 – 6/14/24
1.0 FTE Leave Replacement 3rd Grade Teacher
effective 2/13/24 – 6/14/24
1.0 FTE Leave Replacement Nurse effective 2/20/24
– 6/14/24

2.

Hired Classified Personnel:
Heather Ruiz
Sheri Clark
Rachel Emerson
Rachel Heatley
Rebecca Knight
Jacobi Padilla
Jennifer Reed
Tessa Trudeau
Hannah Wells

3.

Evergreen
Nutrition Services
Shiloh Hills
Transportation
Nutrition Services
Mt. Spokane
Meadow Ridge
Mead HS
Skyline

Elizabeth Sanders
Anna O’Connor
Tami Edwards

Ryan Hampton
Natalie Cabiad
Rachel Ruff

MaKenna Prattley
Leigh Scott
Kelsey Jones

Brian Keen
Hanna Nilson

Michael Moore
Emily Overfelt

Hired Classified Substitutes:
Melissa Reed
Wuling Lee
Jillianne Bartholomew

5.

6 hrs/day Para Ed effective 1/24/24
2.5 hrs/day Cook II effective 2/15/24
6.25 hrs/day Para Ed effective 2/20/24
4 hrs/day Bus Driver effective 2/1/24
3.75 hrs/day Cook II effective 2/8/24
7 hrs/day Behavior Intervention Tech effective 2/8/24
6 hrs/day Para Ed effective 2/8/24
6.15 hrs/day Para Ed effective 2/5/24
6 hrs/day Para Ed effective 2/8/24

Hired Certificated Substitutes:
Julia Reynolds
Evelyn Naras
Lorin Hayward

4.

Class
Class
Class
Class
Class
Class
Class
Class
Class

Robin Haws
Jill Handley

Approved AP Vouchers for General Fund, Capitol Projects, Private Purpose Trust & ASB.

Vouchers audited and certified by auditing officers as required by RCW 42.24.080, and those expense
reimbursement claims certified as required by RCW 42.24.090, have been recorded on a listing which has
been made available to the Board. As of this day, March 11, 2024, the Board, by a unanimous vote does
approve for payment the vouchers included in the above referenced list and further described as Warrant
Numbers 115354 to 115763 in the following amounts:
Fund

Amount

General Fund - AP
General Fund – PR
ASB Fund
Capital Projects Fund
Transportation Vehicle Fund

$ 1,454,689.52
11,797,881.64
247,101.28
64,544.64
335,485.77

6.

Approved Supplemental & Extra-Curricular contracts.

7.

Accepted the Following Donation:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

8.

$750.00 from Spokane Youth Symphony to Mead High School Band Program
$500.00 from Leigh-Ane Williams to Mead High School Orchestra Program
$2500.00 from St. Luke’s Lutheran Church to Mead Resource Hub/Teen & Kids Closet
2000.00 from MSHS Athletic Boosters to Football Program (coach headsets)
$1500.00 from MSHS Athletic Boosters to Boys Golf (golf bags and range finders)
$1540.80 from Prairie View PTO to Prairie View Building Budget (stipend for additional Drama Club coach)
$3000.00 from Wendy’s to Mead HS Band Program

Approved Requests for Unpaid Leave (i.e., parenting, medical, Good of the District, etc.):
Asia Chapman
Kelli Craig
Cheryl Peffer
Kayleigh Sliman
Tina Elliot
Brandt Gerow
Joanna Netzel
Randy Plischke
Amanda Sandoval
MacKenna Jones
Natasha Summer
Julie Kautzman
Michelle Johnson

9.

Custodial
Colbert
MLO
Evergreen
Creekside
Transportation
Shiloh Hills
Mead HS
Brentwood
Mead HS
Mead HS
Evergreen
Highland

Class
Cert
Class
Class
Cert
Class
Class
Class
Cert
Class
Class
Class
Class

2/20/24 – 3/4/24
2/13/24 – 2/23/24
3/8/24 – 4/11/24
3/20/24 & 3/25/24
5/15/24 – 5/17/24
5/14/24
4/9/24 – 4/15/24
4/22/24
3/29/24
2/26/24 – 5/29/24
1/31/24 – 4/14/24
3/8/24 – 4/7/24
3/27-28/24

Accepted Requests for Retirement/Resignation:
Jami Nelsen
Sven Aaseby
Jacob Knight
Jamie Roberts
Jennifer Johns
Claire Perry
Mark St. Clair

Transportation
Nutrition Services
Brentwood
Creekside
Colbert
Farwell
Learning & Teaching

Class
Class
Cert
Class
Class
Cert
Cert

Resignation effective 3/14/24 (Bus Driver)
Resignation effective 3/8/24 (Cook)
Resignation effective 8/31/24 (teacher)
Retirement effective 2/28/24 (Para Ed)
Resignation effective 3/29/24 (Para Ed)
Resignation effective 6/20/23 (teacher – currently on leave)
Retirement effective 8/31/24 (Director Secondary Education)

10.

Declared as Surplus the following Buses:
Bus 6 – 2007 International School Bus
State No. 203832
Vin: 4DRBUAFN17B444777
Lic No: 74113C
Bus 29 – 2005 International School Bus
State No. 203387
Vin: 4DRBUANN25B987157
Lic No: 74107C
Bus 49 – 2000 Bluebird School Bus
State No. 18653
Vin: 1BABNBXA5YF087904
Lic No: B9046C
Bus 54 – 2000 Bluebird School Bus
State No. 18655
Vin: 1BABNBXA9YF087906
Lic No: B9047C
Bus 28 – 2010 International School Bus
State No. 205694
Vin: 4D4BUSKN3AB194073
Lic No: 205694

B. Consent Agenda B
Mt. Spokane HS and Mead HS DECA Nationals
Director of Secondary Education, Mark St.Clair, before presenting the request from qualifying
members of both Mt. Spokane HS DECA and Mead HS DECA, along with teachers/advisors Todd
Slatter and Brandon Butler, plus 2-3 additional chaperones, to travel to Anaheim, CA, April 26 –
May 1, 2024, to compete at the DECA International Career Development Conference, shared the
good news that WIAA 3A Scholastic Cup standings, to date, have Mead HS in 1st place and Mt.
Spokane HS in 3rd place.
The estimated per student cost to travel to Anaheim for the conference is $750 with the
remainder of student costs fundraised through the Student Store at each high school. The
district CTE budget will cover all adult expenses. Students will miss four days of school and Mr.
Slatter and Mr. Butler will need substitute teachers for those four days.
Director Gray made a motion to approve the request from Mt. Spokane HS DECA and Mead HS
DECA to travel to Anaheim, CA, April 26 – May 1, 2024, to compete at the DECA International
Career Development Conference, as presented. Director Nolan seconded the motion. The motion
carried unanimously.
C. Student Travel Proposal
Mt. Spokane HS and Mead HS Yearbook
Director of Secondary Education, Mark St.Clair, presented a travel request from Mt. Spokane HS
Yearbook (two students and advisor Susan Best) and Mead HS Yearbook (four students, advisor
Makena Busch and one additional adult chaperone) to travel to Kansas City, MO, April 4-7, 2024,
to attend the JEA/NSPA Spring National High School Journalism Convention. This is an
opportunity for students to attend sessions on various journalism and yearbook topics and
compete in national competitions.
The estimated per student cost is $600-$630 (airfare and meals). The remaining student costs,
plus all advisor/chaperone expenses, will be covered by the Yearbook ASB budgets. No school
will be missed as the convention takes place during Spring Break.
Director Gray made a motion to approve the request from Mt. Spokane HS Yearbook and Mead
HS Yearbook to travel to Kansas City, MO, April 4-7, 2024, to attend the JEA/NSPA Spring
National High School Journalism Convention, as presented. Director Killman seconded the
motion. The motion carried unanimously.

D. Student Travel Proposal
Mead High School Boys & Girls Track Arcadia Invitational
Director of Secondary Education, Mark St.Clair, presented a travel request for eight members of
Mead High School Boys & Girls Track, plus three coaches/chaperones, to travel to Arcadia,
California, April 4-7, 2024, to participate in the 2024 Arcadia Invitational. This is an opportunity
for students to compete against some of the best track and field athletes in the nation.
The estimated per student cost is $599 (airfare and meals) with fundraisers available. Team ASB
accounts will cover coach expenses plus hotel and rental vans. No school will be missed as the
trip takes place during Spring Break.
Director Gray made a motion to approve the request from Mead High School Boys & Girls Track
to travel to Arcadia, CA, April 4-7, 2024, to compete at the Arcadia Invitational, as presented.
Director Killman seconded the motion. The motion carried unanimously.
E. 1st Reading Policy 5201 Adoption
Drug-Free Schools, Community and Workplace
Superintendent Travis Hanson presented the adoption of Policy 5201, Drug-Free Schools,
Community and Workplace, for first reading, non-action, consideration. This would be a new
policy for the Mead School District. This policy is considered by WSSDA to be essential.
WSSDA Sample Policy 5201 was used as the template for the presented policy adoption. The
policy defines “workplace” and, to help maintain a drug-free school, community and workplace,
includes a listing of behaviors that will not be tolerated. The policy additionally sets forth
Notification Requirements and Disciplinary Action.
Regarding HB 1095 and Policy 3416 (Parental Administration of Marijuana for Medical Purposes),
it was noted that while HB 1095 permits a parent to administer marijuana infused products to
their child on school grounds, aboard school buses and while attending a school-sponsored
event, it does not permit the administration of marijuana to a student by smoking. It does not
include medical marijuana as a “medication” that the school nurse administers and it does not
extend to employees. HB 1095 does not restrict the district from taking punitive steps, including
termination, against employees who possess or use drugs. Neither does it restrict districts from
responding to student possession or use of drugs in circumstances unrelated to parental
administration to their child who is a qualified patient.
The presented policy complies with state and federal law and current district practice.
Discussion included notation of those employee groups where drug testing is required by state
law (bus drivers) and how reasonable suspicion comes into play in situations where drug testing
is not legally required. In response to a question from Director Gray regarding the impact of this
new policy, Human Resource Director Keri Hutchins noted there would be substantially no
change in practice as the district is currently following all state and federal laws regarding drug
testing. By adopting the policy the board would simply be formalizing current district practice.
Regarding student drug use, it was noted the district has policies and procedures in place that
address this topic. If desired, this could be a topic for further discussion at an upcoming Work
Session.
No first reading changes were recommended.

F. 1st Reading Policy 5240 Adoption
Evaluation of Staff
Superintendent Travis Hanson presented the adoption of Policy 5240, Evaluation of Staff, for
first reading, non-action, consideration. This would be a new policy for the Mead School District.
This policy is considered by WSSDA to be essential.
WSSDA Sample Policy 5240 was used as the template for the presented policy adoption.
Recognizing the professional growth and evaluation of individual employees is important to
improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the district, Policy 5240 sets forth evaluation
requirements for Certificated Teachers and Principals, Certificated Support Personnel, Other
Administrative Staff and Classified Staff. In each category employees are evaluated at least once
per year. The purpose of evaluations is to improve an employee’s performance, alert the
employee of any performance deficits and, in the case of teachers and principals, have a positive
impact on student learning.
The presented policy complies with state and federal law and current district practice.
No first reading changes were recommended.
G. 1st Reading Policy 5400 Adoption
Personnel Leaves
Superintendent Travis Hanson presented the adoption of Policy 5400, Personnel Leaves, for first
reading, non-action, consideration. This would be a new policy for the Mead School District. This
policy is considered by WSSDA to be essential.
WSSDA Sample Policy 5400 was used as the template for the presented policy adoption.
The presented policy states that staff may be granted leaves, pursuant to the conditions set forth
in the policy, unless the applicable collective bargaining agreement provides otherwise. The
policy additionally includes an Unpaid Leaves section that provides approval consideration in
certain circumstances. The option to provide unpaid leave does not obligate the district to do
so, or in any way limit or prevent the district from pursuing other responses.
The presented policy complies with state and federal law and current district practice.
It was noted by Human Resources Director Keri Hutchins that the policy being presented for
consideration is a “summary” leave policy. The district already has many “topic specific” leave
policies.
No first reading changes were recommended.
H. 1st Reading Policy 5409 Adoption
Unpaid Holidays for Reason of Faith or Conscience
Superintendent Travis Hanson presented the adoption of Policy 5409, Unpaid Holidays for
Reason of Faith or Conscience, for first reading, non-action, consideration. This would be a new
policy for the Mead School District. This policy is considered by WSSDA to be essential.
WSSDA Sample Policy 5409 was used as the template for the presented policy adoption.
The presented policy affords each district employee the right to request up to two unpaid
holidays per calendar year for reason of faith or conscience or an organized activity conducted
under the auspices of a religious denomination, church or religious organization. In compliance
with state law, the request will be granted unless it is determined the employee’s absence would
impose an undue hardship on the district or the employee is necessary to maintain public safety.

The presented policy complies with state and federal law and current district practice.
No first reading changes were recommended.
I.

1st Reading Policy 5005 Adoption
Employment and Volunteers: Disclosures, Certification Requirements,
Assurances and Approval
Superintendent Travis Hanson presented the adoption of Policy 5005, Employment and
Volunteers: Disclosures, Certification Requirements, Assurances and Approval, for first reading,
non-action, consideration. This would be a new policy for the Mead School District. This policy
is considered by WSSDA to be essential.
WSSDA Sample Policy 5005 was used as the template for the presented policy adoption. WSSDA
retitled and updated this policy in 2017 to reflect compliance with ESB 1654. The update of the
policy pertained to background checks for all staff and volunteers who have regularly scheduled
unsupervised access to students, certification requirements for certificated staff, and procedure
for reemployment of classified staff. There is no current WSSDA procedure for this policy as the
policy itself is expansive enough to cover all the requirements in compliance with state laws.
The presented policy includes sections on the following:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Federal Immigration Law Compliance for Staff
Child Support Reporting for Staff
Sexual Misconduct Release Form for Staff
Disclosures for Staff and Volunteers
Background Check for Staff and Volunteers
Pre-employment Drug Testing
Record Check Database Access Designee
Certification Requirements
Classified Staff
Board Approval

The presented policy complies with state and federal law and current district practice.
In response to board questions, Human Resources Director Keri Hutchins shared the policy does
not represent a significant shift from practices currently in place. She additionally noted,
regarding sexual misconduct when employees move here from out-of-state, that most states
comply with requests for information. The finger printing costs for employees/volunteers who
will have unsupervised access to students is covered by the employee/volunteer.
A Washington State Patrol background check is conducted free of charge for parent volunteers
who have supervised access to students.
President Cannon noted the important balance between providing opportunities for parents to
be involved while at the same time taking necessary student safety measures. It is important the
district makes sure parents feel welcome in district schools.
No first reading changes were recommended.
VII.

Reports
A.
Financial Report for the Month of January 2024
Prior to sharing a brief financial report for the month of January 2024, Chief Financial Officer
Heather Ellingson expressed her appreciation/thanks to the Mead community for their support
in passing the district’s three-year replacement levy.

District enrollment continues to be under budget. Ms. Ellingson, noting kindergarten enrollment
is once again anticipated to be lower next year, shared the district will be ultra-conservative with
enrollment projections for the 2024/25 school year.
The January apportionment from the state now reflects actual rather than budgeted enrollment.
The monetary impact of lower than budgeted for enrollment is approximately $1.2 million.
Cash flow is trending slightly higher than anticipated. There are two upcoming large purchases
planned that will impact cash flow. With leases expiring for secondary Chromebooks the district
will be purchasing new devices and Nutrition Services will be purchasing, sometime this summer,
a new chiller/freezer. Ms. Ellingson shared the district will be receiving a little more money from
the state than anticipated and that the amount needed from Fund Balance this year will be $3$4 million, not the budgeted $5.5 million.
Ms. Ellingson reminded that the new levy rate will not start being collected until April 2025. The
2024/2025 budget will be a discussion item at an upcoming Work Session.
In conclusion, Ms. Ellingson briefly reviewed the other four district funds (Debt Service, Capital
Projects, ASB and Transportation Vehicle). This review included notation that PTO and Booster
Club monies are separate, they are not included in any district fund. Building budgets are part
of the district’s General Fund and the district does not contribute any money to school ASB
accounts.
B.
Technology Committee Update
Business & Operations Assistant Superintendent Jared Hoadley provided an update on the work
of the district’s Technology Committee. The committee, comprised of six parents and six school
district representatives, has met ten times since May 2023.
Dr. Hoadley’s update included a recap of topics covered at committee meetings, identification
of common themes from the June 2023 ThoughtExchange survey completed by parents, Action
Steps to Date, Action Steps in Motion and Next Steps.
Action Steps to Date:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Healthy hours are in place for all students from 6 am to 10 pm.
Middle School students are allowed to email instructional staff and their parents, they are
not allowed to email each other.
Middle School lunch time is a social time with limited Chromebook access.
Classroom Chromebook usage is intentional and teacher directed.
Teachers can manage and filter student internet access with GoGuardian software. They
can choose which websites to allow or block, and interact with student screens.
Teachers are able to limit the number of tabs open.
There are increased restrictions for YouTube in K-8.

Action Steps in Motion:
•
•
•
•

Digital citizenship instruction is being reviewed.
Cell phone policies are being reviewed with the goal of increasing consistency of
implementation and lessening classroom distractions.
Parent access to GoGuardian is being piloted.
A community evening event is being planned for May 21, 2024, where, working in
cooperation with ESD 101, the documentary Screenagers Growing Up in the Digital Age
will be shown. The hope is that this event begins the conversation around the following

survey themes: screen time, parent resources, parent involvement, Chromebook
management and cell phone management.
Next Steps:
• Keeping lines of communication open with families, students and staff.
• Continued Technology Committee meetings to work through tech-related priorities
identified in the ThoughtExchange survey.
• Ongoing commitment from the Mead School District to assure appropriate use of
technology by students.
The board thanked Dr. Hoadley for this update with Director Gray noting she had the
opportunity to attend a recent Technology Committee meeting and observe the great discussion
that took place. At middle schools she has observed kids are in the gym at lunch time and reading
in the library rather than being on devices.
Regarding GoGuardian teacher training, Dr. Hoadley shared it is a work in process, and regarding
making GoGuardian universally available to parents, it was shared access is being piloted to see
if it is really what parents want. Feedback so far shows they like the program but wish it had
additional options. GoGuardian currently serves as the district’s content filter. If the decision is
made to transition to a new software it will impact all district devices and will involve a multifaceted implementation process.
C.
Superintendent’s Report
Superintendent Hanson reported/shared information on the following:
•

•

•

Like President Cannon, Superintendent Hanson, regarding Educational Support
Professionals Week, noted the district simply could not operate without the employees
who serve in these positions. Their service and efforts on behalf of students is truly
appreciated.
Noting this is the first business meeting following the levy election, Superintendent
Hanson extended his sincere thanks to the community for their support in passing this
ballot measure. The survey soliciting feedback on the levy is nearly ready to be sent out.
He requested board members get back with him in the next few days with any suggested
revisions. The survey will be emailed to district families and advertised to the community
at large via a standalone postcard. The feedback from both Yes and No voters will be very
important. Moving forward it will be important to focus on restoring fund balance and
“right sizing”. Meetings have been scheduled to start the process of determining safety
and security needs and Learning & Teaching Assistant Superintendent Heather Havens
has started the process of prioritizing curriculum needs.
Superintendent Hanson reminded the board that, under the direction of CTE Director
Moleena Harris, the district is sponsoring a CTE Health Sciences event at Mead High
School on Tuesday evening (March 12).

VIII. Remarks for the Good of the Schools – Public Comment on Non-Agenda Items
There were no public comments on non-agenda items.
IX.
Adjourn
The meeting was adjourned at 7:35 pm.

President

Secretary

