Minutes from the June 27, 2024 Board Retreat
The Board of Directors held a Board Retreat on Thursday, June 27, 2024. This meeting was held
at District Office. The meeting began at 5 pm. Directors Cannon, Gray, Nolan and Killman were
present. Director Burchard was excused. Also attending was Superintendent Travis Hanson.
I.
Approval of Agenda
Director Nolan made a motion to approve the meeting agenda, as presented. Director Gray
seconded the motion. The motion carried unanimously.
II.
Intra-District Transfers (Policy/Procedure 3131) Discussion
Josh Westermann (Student & Family Services Director), Jeff Naslund (incoming Secondary
Education Director), Kimberly Jensen (Mead HS Principal) and Chelsea Gallagher (Mt. Spokane HS
Principal) joined the board as invited guests to help provide context and answer questions on
the Intra-District Transfer process as it relates to current Policy/Procedure 3131. The transition
for the upcoming 2024/2025 school year from paper to an online application process was
reviewed, the term “substantial hardship” was discussed, as was the possibility of granting all
transfer requests or, in the alternative, making the process less restrictive.
III.
CHAS Partnership Expansion Discussion
Prior to sharing information on the expansion of the district’s partnership with CHAS, Student
& Family Services Director Josh Westermann provided a brief update on the nurse staffing plan
for the upcoming 2024/2025 school year. The 2024/2025 budgeted FTE for nurses is the same
as in the 2023/2024 school year. The absence coverage issues experienced in 2023/2024 should
be better in the upcoming school year as there are now more substitute nurses available to fillin when permanent staff are absent. Director Gray shared she would be supportive of adding
nurses so that there is more of a staffing cushion.
A CHAS Clinic has been housed at Shiloh Hills Elementary School for the past two school years.
This clinic has been well-received by the Shiloh Hills community. There were 516 office visits
this past year with 10% being adult visits. The district is in preliminary talks with CHAS regarding
expansion of this partnership to other elementary schools. As was the case with the Shiloh Hills
clinic, any expansion would involve very thoughtful communication.
Discussion included the need to be much more cautious about any plans to expand into middle
school or high school, especially considering that 13-year-olds can make their own decisions
about certain medical services without parental consent.
IV.
24/25 Board Meeting Calendar
Superintendent Hanson distributed a document that included agenda items that are planned for
board meetings taking place in the upcoming 2024/2025 school year.
V.
Real Estate Purchase
To authorize the purchase of real estate that was reviewed at a recent Executive Session, a Special
Webinar Board Meeting was scheduled to take place on July 2, 2024 at 11 am.
VI.
Board Communication Structures & Protocols (Policy 1220)
Review/discussion of the following board communication structures and protocols took place:

•
•
•

Internal (staff)
External (parents/patrons/media)
Communication Reminders
o Email reminders and scheduling correspondence do not violate OPMA.
o A meeting does not occur just by an email being sent to all board members.
Board members can passively receive information through email. The key is
that board members must not exchange preliminary thoughts – if they discuss
the information by sending emails back and forth - that may constitute a
meeting.

VII.
Challenges & Opportunities Discussion
To help facilitate conversation, President Cannon shared a document he prepared that included
the following general Challenges & Opportunities discussion topics:
•
•
•
•
•

Litigation management and the impact it has had, and will continue to have, on the
Superintendent.
How individual board member passions get elevated to the board as a whole.
The importance of the board working with and through the superintendent on all efforts.
To assist with prioritization, consider issues/goals in terms of: importance to
students/families, importance to the district, liability, vulnerability, pace/effort and
cost/political capital.
Identify areas the board would like to address and/or change and, taking into
consideration bandwidth, determine where each item falls within stated board goals.
Items already identified as areas of concern were included under this talking point.

Initial topics identified as current priority areas included a review/overhaul of athletic culture
and the need for a classroom décor policy. Transgender athletic participation was additionally
identified as an area of concern.
VIII. Review 2021-2025 Strategic Plan
Superintendent Hanson reviewed the district’s current Strategic Plan and noted, with this plan
sunsetting at the end of the upcoming school year, he will gather stakeholders to begin the work
of drafting a new plan.
IX.
Review 2023-2024 Board Goals & Discuss 2024-2025 Board Goals
After first reviewing 2023-2024 Board Goals, discussion centered on identifying goal areas for
the upcoming school year, with the following four areas identified:
•
•
•
•

Safety & Security
Curriculum (including reference to technology and cell phones)
School Culture
Fiscal Stewardship

Superintendent Hanson will put together a draft 2024-2025 Board Goals document for the board
to review prior to formal adoption.
X.
Engaging the Community
Discussion centered around the use of ThoughtExchange, Focus Groups, Stakeholder Panels and
Community Advisory Boards as tools to facilitate meaningful community engagement.
XI.
Adjourn
Prior to adjournment, Director Killman brought up the topic of Chromebooks and Apple TVs,
noting the proposed 2024-2025 budget includes a substantial amount of money for
Chromebooks. She asked the board to consider if this is a wise investment and whether the
money could/should be allocated differently.

The meeting was adjourned at 10:25 pm.

President

Secretary

