Board Work Session Minutes
Monday, September 9, 2024
The Board of Directors held a Work Session on Monday, September 9, 2024. The meeting began
at 6:00 pm and was held at District Office. Directors Cannon, Gray, Nolan and Killman were
present. Director Nolan had to leave at 6:25 pm and Director Burchard was not in attendance.
Both absences were excused. Also attending were Superintendent Travis Hanson and Assistant
Superintendent Jared Hoadley.
I.
Approval of the Agenda
Director Nolan made a motion to approve the agenda, as presented. Director Gray seconded the
motion. The motion carried unanimously.
II.
Safety & Security Update/Report
Prior to reporting on safety and security, Business & Operations Assistant Superintendent Jared
Hoadley introduced School Resource Officers Mitch Ottmar and TJ Knutson. Mitch is primarily
responsible for the Mead High School side of the district with TJ serving Mt. Spokane feeder
schools. The two officers share responsibility for Northwood Middle School. Dr. Hoadley shared
these officers are exceptional at their jobs and noted, in particular, the high priority they place
on building strong relationships with students.
Superintendent Hanson asked the officers to share what they have been surprised about in their
job, the thing or things that cause them concern and suggestions for how the district can
improve. Both officers noted that “kids are great” but parents can be challenging and that social
media is an area of concern. Regarding improvement, Officer Knutson referenced Central
Valley’s Security Team that is able to, for example, handle situations where elementary students
run away/leave campus. In Mead resource officers are called to help in these types of situations
which takes them away from doing other aspects of their job.
Regarding the removal of exterior hallway bathroom doors at both high schools, the officers
noted it is easier to catch students doing inappropriate things but does not significantly impact
the number of incidents taking place.
Approximately one-half of the cost for the district’s school resource officers is covered by
Spokane County.
Safety & Security Update/Report
In this update Dr. Hoadley shared information on the following:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

District Safety Meetings (4 annually)
Visitor Management System
Volunteer Approval Process
Homeland Security Partnership
Double Authentication
Power of Hello
Student Identification Cards and Transportation
Standard Response Protocol-Review

Discussion included new technology that allows an employee to trigger an alert via their ID Badge
and the ever present concerns surrounding cyber security.

III.
Fixed Assets Audit Report
In compliance with Policy 6801, Travis Bown (Maintenance Director), reported on district fixed
assets. In general, fixed assets have a value above $5,000. The Maintenance Department
continues to work to identify and tag every district asset meeting the $5,000 valuation threshold.
To date, 3,000 pieces of equipment have been physically tagged and that information has been
imported into the district’s asset management software system.
Each district building/department does an excellent job tracking their assets.
When an asset is determined to no longer be needed, prior to selling or disposing of the asset,
the board must declare the item as surplus.
Discussion included the cost associated with replacing big ticket items, who should pay (district
or building) and how these replacement projects are planned for/prioritized.
IV.
Maintenance & Facilities Report
Ned Wendle (Facilities & Planning Director) and Travis Bown (Maintenance Director) shared the
following:
•
•
•
•

Review of bond projects, including associated costs, completed in the past ten years and
notation that the remaining promised bond projects (Meadow Ridge Sewer Project and
Farwell Parent Drop-Off Project) were completed this past summer.
Assurance the district works hard to do as much as possible with the monies it has.
Preview of upcoming RFPs (snow plowing, security & fire protection, safety & security
patrol) that will be coming to the board for approval in the near future.
Review of the Clean Buildings Act and the current clean building score of each school in
the district.

Discussion included the old Northwood site that currently houses the Mead Learning Options
program and the fact that the state waiver to continue using that building as an instructional
space expires in three years.
V.
Superintendent Update
Superintendent Hanson had nothing further to report.
VI.
Adjourn
The meeting was adjourned at 7:35 pm.

President

Secretary

