Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Study Session Minutes January 5, 2023
Generated by Kris Newberry
  1. CONVENE
1.01 Call to Order
Dr. Erickson called to order at 5:34 p.m. 
  Present from the Board were Dr. Kevin Erickson, Melinda Cool, Peggy Uppiano, Steve Childs, and Kwabena Ledbetter.
Present from the executive team were Superintendent Dr. Kristi Dominguez, Assistant Superintendent for Business and Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive Directors of Teaching & Learning Kellie Larrabee and Dr. Faye Britt, Executive Director of Human Resources John Fairbairn, Executive Director of Special Education Trina Hall, and Executive Director of Communications Celina Rodriguez.
2. MATTERS FOR BOARD DISCUSSION
Dr. Erickson described the purpose of the meeting as a review of safety, similar to what is done in every district building as well as a review of meeting structures. Due to the quick turnaround in room layout, technology was not in place, so the meeting was not videoed or broadcast.
Dr. Erickson introduced Chief Kevin Turner.  Chief Turner described his role for this evening’s meeting.
The Board is wanting to begin the new year with the lens of safety.  The safety of the people at the meeting is the Board’s responsibility and they can be held personally liable if unsafe actions are reported and not acted on.  Chief Turner watched the last meeting and described his reaction to seeing a person reaching in a bag and pulling something out quickly.  Chief Turner said that regardless of intent, if it causes someone to feel threatened, that’s the side the courts will take.  The side of the victim.  One person’s reaction may be different than another’s, and both are right.
Chief Turner spoke about keeping the decorum in a meeting.  Even if the public is loud or disruptive, if they are held to the same standards, the meeting can still be productive.
Open to the Board for questions:
Mr. Childs inquired whether Chief Turner had seen previous meetings and stated he was not surprised by the behavior.  It had been being exhibited for over a year. Mr. Childs said that no communication has been made with people to give them fair chance to correct their behavior.  Chief said the Public Comment time on the agenda may not be the right venue to resolve an issue.  There are other avenues to address issues, such as meeting with the superintendent or political members.  He said if you want a pothole repaired in front of your house, you don’t go the City Council meeting to complain about it.  You go to City Public Works. 
Ms. Cool stated that the actions at the last meeting were scary to her and the behavior has escalated over time. She stated the need to have a meeting with decorum and exercise some control over the meeting.
Ms. Uppiano interpretation of the comments were that they were not intended to mean some local action would occur but more on a world stage.  She asked for clarity on what was threatening is or is not. Chief Turner suggested to seek legal advice on it.  There are restrictions on the 1st amendment.  If someone believes that the words and actions are threatening, they can be restricted.  Reasonable, fair, firm and consistent for everyone.
Perspective on intent.  How do you differentiate between theatrical and threatening?  Chief Turner would just call it as it is.  He would say, “You seem kind of agitated or loud….” Sometimes that brief pause can deescalate the speaker. “This seems this is headed in the wrong direction, maybe take a breath.”  Helps someone reset.  Err of the side of good faith and safety. 
Board is encouraged to remain silent and follow up through channels later.  If the public comment runs over, they can follow up in an email or writing or set an appointment to discuss it further.  Therefore, we should ask the public to sign in with their contact information for follow up purposes.
Dr. Erickson believes the visual timer has helped set the tone and that allowing extra time will set a precedent. 
Question of whether to read the policy aloud prior to Public Comment.
Recap: The board will need set the tone, be productive.
Ms. Uppiano said the silver lining is that last time was not a threat, but it could be, and we need to prepare for it. Chief Turner stated that there are a variety of ways to provide security.  Sargent of Arms, police officer, resource officer. Do we need to consider something like this?
Ms. Cool mentioned that state laws state that while we need to provide a physical space for the meeting, but staff or board members can join the meeting virtually or call in.
Ms. Rodriguez says the modeling of the behavior begins here with the Board.  What would the response be to students if the behavior was happening in the schools?
Mark Deebach read in part the No. 5 of the Strategic Commitments: “We believe that safety is a basic need and fundamental right of every person. A sense of safety is critical for learning and development to occur. Therefore, ensuring the physical, social and emotional safety of all our students and staff in an equitable manner is an essential priority within our school system.”  The board room is an extension of the classroom.  The school district is in the business of teaching and learning.
Mr. Ledbetter stated we need sensitivity to those affected.  He stated that we still build a ramp even if 99 out of 100 can walk. 
Dr. Britt stated, we have protocols in place.
Mr. Ledbetter stated, we should be doing more to ensure the safety of everyone. 
Dr. Dominguez reported that staff reported to her that they are not feeling safe to send students to boardroom. If you are not going to have standards and expectations in the board room, they do not trust the support they would receive. 
Mr. Childs says we need to set what the expectation is.
Dr. Dominguez recommends, name, address, topic; read the policy.  Teach them what our expectations are.
Ms. Larrabee read from Policy 3207 Prohibition of Harassment, Intimidation and Bullying.
Chief Turner said the district needs next steps.  You can cut someone off from commenting, but then what? Have a plan in place.
Dr. Erickson would like to look at the safety plans at schools. Ms. Cool stated we have the tools in place, we just need to act.
Mr. Deebach, school building entrances have been physically altered to provide safety. 
Ms. Uppiano believes Mr. Chalfant represents the District and not the Board.  She wants different legal counsel. Dr. Erickson stated we’ll ask Sam Chalfant the scope of his work at the January meeting.
Based on tonight’s conversation, Dr. Dominguez made the following recommendation and asked the board if they can support:
  Changed room layout
Change the initial script to Public Comment- laying out policy.
Name, address and topic
Speaker must be a resident, current employee or designee
3-minute speaking limit
Hold tight up front, make exceptions later on
Use a Sargent of Arms – asked for agreement, everyone agreed
  Mr. Childs suggest in the beginning of the meeting we should acknowledge where emergency exits are, for emergency purposes, roster to sign in so if there’s an evacuation, we would be able to account for everyone.
Suggestion to reach out to some individuals to explain the rules.
Use Webster's Dictionary definition. Legal counsel will be sought at the next meeting.
  Dr. Dominguez laid out her commitment for what will be sent to the Board.
  3. ADJOURN
  Meeting was adjourned at 7:14 p.m.
  ________________________________                    _______________________________
Dr. Kevin Erickson, President                      Dr. Kristi Dominguez, Superintendent