Blaine School District No. 503
  Regular Board Meeting
Monday, October 28, 2024
  Minutes
  1. Regular Board Meeting
A. Call to Order
Vice-President Lazarus called the meeting to order, in the district's boardroom, at 7:00 p.m. President Freeman was unable to attend and was excused. All other directors were in attendance.
     Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  B. Pledge of Allegiance
Vice-President Lazarus led in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  C. Board Comments on the Agenda
Director Galbraith asked for the CTE Program Plan item to be removed from the Consent Agenda.
  2. Good News
A. National Bullying Prevention Month
This presentation took place after the Budget Status and Financial Report. Technology Department staff member Tricia Johnson described the variety of activities that have taken place on school campuses for October's Bullying Prevention Campaign in recognition of National Bullying Prevention Month. Students and staff on each campus are being asked this week to sign a unity pledge banner. Ms. Johnson asked the directors to participate as well by signing a unity poster pledging their commitment to work collaboratively to maintain a safe and supportive environment in Blaine School District. Each director signed the unity pledge.
  3. Public Comment
A. Public Comment
The following individuals addressed the board regarding topics of concern:
Michelle Schulz addressed the board about "inclusion". She encouraged the board to learn how to communicate with the deaf and hard of hearing. She also advocated for the district to provide ASL interpreters at all events, including plays, community gatherings, and staff trainings. Additionally, Ms. Schulz thanked the board for their support for principals and assistant principals who are doing great work.
Natalie Chavez addressed the board about "health and well-being". She again expressed concerns about the county health department pushing for school-based health clinics. She shared additional concerns about those clinics pushing medications and treatments on students without parental consent and shared a detailed story about this happening to a family in Maine.
  4. Reports
A. School Administrator Monthly Reports
Monthly school administrator reports for Blaine schools were attached to the agenda for review by the board. There was no discussion in the meeting.
  B. Enrollment Update
The district's business office provided a report showing enrollment through the month of October.
  C. Budget Status and Financial Report
The district's business office provided reports regarding revenue and expenses through the month of September which were attached to the meeting agenda for board review.

Director Creydt asked for verbal reports to be provided in future meetings and discussion followed regarding what she would like to be included. Director Creydt also asked for an update on when F-196s would be out. Director of Finance Keith Yaich indicated that the F-196 for FY 2023-2024 should be wrapped up by October 29, 2024, and Director Creydt requested an update presentation on F-196s at a future meeting.
  D. Superintendent's Report
Dr. Christopher Granger provided an update which included information on the following topics.
WSSDA Annual Conference: Pre-conference starts on November 21st and those directors attending should have what is needed.
KING 5 News Coverage: On October 29, KING 5 investigative news will visit to learn how the 30-minute lunch has been accomplished at Blaine Primary, where students eat lunch in their classroom, but not at Blaine Elementary School. Schools throughout the region and the state have been facing significant scheduling challenges in trying to implement the lunch and recess provisions. The situation in Blaine is unique because we have one school that meets the requirement and another that does not, and that school is on a waiver this year.
Student Withdrawal Information: Dr. Granger shared information regarding students who have withdrawn from Blaine schools since the 2023-2024 school year. He reported that 5% of withdrawn students went to homeschool, 14.2% moved out of the county to another area in Washington state, 20.3% moved to another state, 5% went to private school, 7.5% are unknown (no-show and unknown if enrolled elsewhere), 10.8% went to a virtual learning program outside of Blaine School District which was about half of the number from last year, 27% moved to another district within Whatcom County.
K-3 Funding: Data from 2024-2025 is being reviewed, including the cost of compliance. Like many districts, the cost for Blaine to receive K-3 funding may outweigh the financial benefit.
K-5 Literacy Review: Data is being collected and reviewed. The Teaching and Learning leadership will present written quarterly updates to the board which will include this curriculum review process. Presentations were not provided at this meeting due to scheduling conflicts.
Workers Compensation Costs: Dr. Granger informed the board that there may be potential changes to increase the cost of Workers Compensation. Impacts to the district are being monitored.
Bond Initiative: Since the September meeting, Dr. Granger has presented bond information at two Supper with the Superintendent events and at the Salishan Neighborhood association.

Director Swinburnson asked for clarification about an increase in FTE on the enrollment report. Dr. Granger affirmed and explained that enrollment revenue is based upon a monthly average for the whole year, and the ups and downs each month are part of that average. Dr. Granger added that other districts in the county have also seen increases, and Blaine's online learning program is now at capacity.

Director Galbraith asked for clarification about the K-5 Literacy report he had requested for this meeting. Discussion followed, and Director Galbraith expressed displeasure that his request for Dawn Cottnair to provide a report was not honored.
  5. Consent Agenda
The board voted to approve all items listed on the Consent Agenda, and Vice-President Lazarus declared the 4-0 vote.
  A. Approval of Minutes - September 23, 2024 Regular Board Meeting
The board approved the minutes of the September 23, 2024 Regular Board Meeting.
Motion by Ryan Swinburnson, second by Steve Galbraith
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  B. Personnel Matters
The board approved the recommended Personnel Matters.
Motion by Ryan Swinburnson, second by Steve Galbraith
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  C. Financial Matters
The board approved Financial Matters as detailed on the Consent Agenda.
Motion by Ryan Swinburnson, second by Steve Galbraith
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  D. Contracts & Agreements
The board approved the following service contracts:
Eastern New Mexico University Affiliation Agreement
2024-2025 County Mobile Response Team (Kate Haskell) MOA
2024-2025 Whatcom County Health & Community Services MOU
Motion by Ryan Swinburnson, second by Steve Galbraith
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  E. Student Travel
The Board approved the following Student Travel requests:
HS Choir Retreat at Camp Horizon (Nov. 1-2)
HS Wrestling to Bremerton, WA (Dec. 19-21)
HS Wrestling to Quincy, WA (Jan. 24-25)
CADCA National Leadership Forum in Maryland (Feb. 2-7)
HS Choir Festival in Vancouver, BC, Canada (May 22-24)
Motion by Ryan Swinburnson, second by Steve Galbraith
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  F. Policy 3241 Student Discipline: Second Reading & Adoption
The board approved "Second Reading" and adoption of changes to Policy 3241 Student Discipline.
Motion by Ryan Swinburnson, second by Steve Galbraith
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  6. Action Items
A. 2024-2025 CTE Program Plan
Director Galbraith said the presentation report was nice, and he asked for clarification of the referenced acronyms on the last slide. It was also clarified that the motion language on the last slide was intended for action by the CTE Advisory Committee, and not for the school board.
  The board voted to approve the district's 2024-2025 Career and Technical Education program plan, and Vice-President Lazarus declared the 4-0 vote.
Motion by Steve Galbraith, second by Ben Lazarus
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  B. Sex-Based Discrimination Policies: First Reading
Director Creydt opened the discussion with comments related to staff concerns about conflict between Title IX and HIPAA protections. Director Creydt asked to see the response from the district’s legal counsel, specifying that she wanted to see it on the attorney’s letterhead. The board agreed by consensus that the directors should be provided with the attorney’s response, on the attorney’s letterhead, explaining how HIPAA relates to school districts.

Discussion followed regarding the policy manual updates provided by WSSDA to comply with 2024 Title IX Regulations that went into effect at the beginning of this school year. In order to include consideration of advice from legal counsel, Director Swinburnson suggested tabling action on “First Reading” of these updates until the November meeting. Director Galbraith agreed that more discussion would be desirable. Director Galbraith further clarified that he expects the board to be copied on email correspondence to the attorney, and to have the attorney reply to the full board as well. Director Swinburnson stressed the importance of asking the attorney specific questions to narrow the focus of the response. Director Creydt suggested that each director provide Dr. Granger with their question(s) and all agreed to do so by Wednesday, October 30.
  The board voted to table "First Reading" of policies 3205, 3206, 5011, and 5012 until the November meeting.
Motion by Ryan Swinburnson, second by Steve Galbraith
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  7. Board Comments and Future Meeting(s)
A. Discussion and General Comments
Patron Request for Board to Consider Renaming District: Dr. Granger referenced his prior communications to the board regarding a Birch Bay community member's request to rename the district. He asked the board to provide direction on how they would like to respond to this request. Director Swinburnson stated he has no desire to change the district’s name. Director Lazarus expressed concern regarding the expense of replacing everything that currently displays the district’s name. It was agreed by consensus that the board does not wish to change the name of the district.
Enrollment Committee: Director Swinburnson asked for the enrollment committee issue to be placed on the November meeting agenda for board action. He indicated that he would provide a written proposal for attachment to the agenda.
  Director Creydt asked that the updated Policy 5251 Conflicts of Interest be included on the November agenda for “Second Reading” and adoption. Vice-President Lazarus affirmed that it would be added.
  Director Creydt requested that the board’s evaluation of the superintendent be rescheduled earlier since she will not be going to the WSSDA Annual Conference in Spokane. Discussion followed regarding options for conducting that closed meeting. Dr. Granger indicated that his annual Strategic Plan update will be provided to the board president by November 1st. Director Galbraith indicated that would not work because it’s too quick. Discussion continued regarding the option of allowing Director Creydt to participate telephonically. Vice-President Lazarus described concerns related to the maintaining of confidentiality for that closed session. To allow all directors to participate in person, it was agreed by consensus that the November 21st meeting would be rescheduled for November 14th at 6:00pm, pending confirmation of President Freeman’s availability. Director Swinburnson expressed confidence that telephonic participation should also be allowable because each director has taken an oath to uphold the district’s policies and procedures and understands the expectation for confidentiality of an executive session, as well as there being recourse if any directors violate that confidentiality.
  Director Swinburnson added comments regarding the eye mural at Blaine Elementary School and discussion followed. Dr. Granger confirmed that the mural was done at no cost to the district and in cooperation with other art projects being done around Blaine. Director Swinburnson expressed appreciation for the artistic quality of the mural, and also expressed that it was weird to have an eye ball staring at elementary students.
  B. Future Meeting(s) and Agenda Suggestions
The next regular board meeting is on Monday, November 25, 2024 at 7:00 p.m.

Suggestions for agenda items include:
School Administrator Reports
Enrollment Update & Financial Report
WSSDA Conference Report
Superintendent's Report
Policy Updates
  8. Executive Session
A. Executive Session
At 7:44 p.m., Vice-President Lazarus announced that the board would move into executive session for the purpose of discussing the performance of a public employee. The closed session was expected to last until 8:00 p.m. with no action by the board following.

At 8:00 p.m., Vice-President Lazarus returned to the boardroom and announced that the executive session would be extended to 8:10 p.m.
  9. Reconvene & Adjourn
A. Reconvene & Adjourn
At 8:10 p.m., the directors returned to the boardroom and the meeting reconvened in regular session. There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned by a unanimous vote.
Motion by Steve Galbraith, second by Ben Lazarus
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  DATE MINUTES APPROVED: November 25, 2024
   
               _____________________________                            _____________________________
                        BOARD PRESIDENT                                                      SECRETARY/CLERK