Blaine School District No. 503
  Regular Board Meeting
Monday, April 22, 2024
  Minutes
  1. Regular Board Meeting
A. Call to Order
President Freeman called the meeting to order, in the district's boardroom, at 7:00 p.m. All directors were in attendance.
     Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  B. Pledge of Allegiance
President Freeman led in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  C. Board Comments on the Agenda
At the beginning of the meeting, President Freeman acknowledged the large audience and indicated that there was sufficient space for the meeting to remain in boardroom.

There were no comments from the directors on the agenda.
  2. Good News
A. Teacher Appreciation Week
The Board of Directors recognized Teacher Appreciation Week which will be observed May 6-10. Dr. Granger expressed the district's appreciation for certificated staff members' dedication as they give their best to each student, each day. President Freeman echoed his appreciation as well.
  3. Public Comment
A. Public Comment
The following individuals addressed the board regarding topics of concern:
Sam Townson addressed the board about "Budget reductions". She expressed concern about the reduction to one secretary at Blaine Primary School.
Shane Levetsovitis addressed the board. He commented on the proposed budget reduction and asked for a more equitable division of reductions, focusing on deeper cuts to administration.
Michelle Schulz addressed the board about the "Budget". She expressed deep concern about class sizes and asked board to be well informed before making a decision to cut.
Brittney Beard addressed the board about the "Budget". She expressed concern that high school art class would be eliminated, and stated that paraeducators and teachers work with no breaks already.
Carol Crauswell addressed the board about "Budget Reductions". She described her experience as a paraeducator with challenging students and expressed concern about safety.
  4. Reports
A. School Administrator Reports
Written reports from each school administrator were attached to the meeting agenda for board review.
  B. Enrollment Update
A report showing enrollment through the month of April was provided by the district's business office and attached to the meeting agenda for board review.
  C. Budget Status and Financial Report
A report showing revenue and expenses through the month of March was provided by the district's business office and attached to the meeting agenda for board review.
  D. Superintendent's Report
Dr. Christopher Granger provided an update which included information on the following topics.
Finance Director Search: As of this meeting date, one out-of-state candidate has declined due to financial constraints. The recruiter has been actively searching with no luck.
Basketball Coach: After an exhaustive and unsuccessful search for a new basketball coach, the district's Athletic Director, Chas Kok, has agreed to take on the role for the upcoming season. Dr. Granger contrasted this situation to the fall of 2017 when the board clearly articulated that there would be a conflict for the AD to serve as a coach. Although having Mr. Kok coach is not ideal, at this time it is necessary in order for student athletes to have a summer program and be prepared for the next season. Dr. Granger explained how the district's Assistant Athletic Director will provide leadership support. He assured the board that this solution is intended to be short term and the position will be posted again after the next season.
2024-2025 Calendar: A clerical error for the January 2025 holiday has been corrected on the 2024-2025 school calendar.
Cafeteria CEP: The district's Food Service Director is researching a CEP program which would allow all students to receive meals at no cost. This would give all students equal access to meals and would resolve the district's current problem of unpaid lunch account balances which currently total -$30,000.
  5. Consent Agenda
The board voted to approve all items listed on the Consent Agenda
  A. Approval of Minutes - February 26, 2024 Regular Board Meeting
At the board's meeting on March 25, 2024, approval of the February 26, 2024 regular meeting minutes failed to pass because only two of the five directors cast votes, resulting in a lack of quorum. At this meeting, the board approved the minutes of the February 26, 2024 Regular Board Meeting, with adjustments to Section 7.A. made following Director Creydt's feedback.
Motion by Ben Lazarus, second by Ryan Swinburnson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  B. Approval of Minutes - March 25, 2024 Regular Board Meeting
The board approved the minutes of the March 25, 2024 Regular Board Meeting.
Motion by Ben Lazarus, second by Ryan Swinburnson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  C. Personnel Matters
The board approved the recommended Personnel Matters.
Motion by Ben Lazarus, second by Ryan Swinburnson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  D. Financial Matters
The board approved Financial Matters as detailed on the Consent Agenda.
Motion by Ben Lazarus, second by Ryan Swinburnson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  E. Contracts & Agreements
The board approved the 2024 ESD112 Communications Agreement Amendment.
Motion by Ben Lazarus, second by Ryan Swinburnson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  F. Resolution 2324-07 WIAA Membership Renewal
The board voted to adopt Resolution 2324-07 indicating approval of Blaine School District's membership renewal with the Washington Interscholastic Activities Association (WIAA).
Motion by Ben Lazarus, second by Ryan Swinburnson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  6. Action Items
A. Resolution 2324-08 Adoption of 2024-2025 Reduced Educational Program
Dr. Granger described efforts to communicate on this topic, which started immediately after adoption of the 2023-2024 budget reduction plan in April of 2023. That budget reduction plan was adopted prior to the finalization of labor agreements. Communication has included budget presentations and Q&A sessions at all campuses and departments, as well as a staff survey. The proposed $2.5M reduction being considered at this meeting includes $500K of non-staffing cuts. There is still the possibility of further adjustments if the district's financial situation improves. Adoption of this plan allows the district to move forward with the staffing adjustment process.

Each director shared comments on the proposed reduction, and all agreed that it is a painful endeavor.

Director Galbraith addressed staff members in the audience and recognized the value of their work under trying conditions. He has worked really hard since joining the board in March to learn the budgeting process, and he feels he has done his due diligence. In response to a letter challenging him to have the courage to stand up to Dr. Granger, he indicated that he has the courage to do what is right. He acknowledged that the district has limited funding, and he encouraged all stakeholders to work collaboratively in addressing this problem at the state level where the responsibility lies.

Director Creydt expressed a desire to provide more resources for students, and suggested that the board have more work sessions to discuss the budget.

Director Swinburnson referenced having received more than 50 emails over the past few days. He acknowledged the importance of the public feeling heard, and he hasn't had time to consider all of the messages he has received. He expressed frustration with the position the district is facing, and he affirmed the value of each staff member's contribution. He encouraged everyone to focus on solutions instead of blame and to present a united effort to communicate with legislators in Olympia. He has experienced a steep learning curve after only one month as a director, and he would like an opportunity to discuss alternatives as a board.

Director Lazarus asked for clarification about a $360K grant, and Dr. Granger explained that the district's calculations differ from the state's in the qualification area, and they are working to determine the discrepancy in order to secure that funding.

Director Lazarus further commented on the budget reduction which he hopes will get the district on more stable financial footing. He gave examples of suggestions he had received which included the elimination of all assistant principals, and he explained why he does not agree that one administrator per building would be feasible. Director Lazarus' comments on increased staffing expenses were interrupted by members of the audience. He expressed frustration with the unfortunate lack of trust in both directions. In order to consider alternatives, he suggested splitting out the certificated reductions now to meet the May 15 deadline, and considering suggestions they've received for other staff and administrators. Dr. Granger clarified that administrators are certificated employees under the law and must also receive notification of reduction by the May 15 deadline.

President Freeman indicated that getting into the minutia is not the role of the board, and he trusts the work that the district's leadership team has been doing since last September to prepare this recommendation. He feels prepared to support the resolution as written.

There was discussion regarding Director Lazarus' suggestion to postpone SEIU notifications, and Dr. Granger explained the timing necessary to meet SEIU's June 10 notification deadline.

Director Swinburnson clarified that postponing the board's action would only be productive if other plans are presented. He is comfortable pushing up against the deadline, but only if there are productive suggestions brought to the table.

Dr. Granger added that enrollment is being monitored and anticipates that an additional kindergarten or 3rd grade teacher will likely be needed which will impact the budget.

Director Creydt referred back to the April Enrollment Report and asked why numbers were different on the memo from the business office. Dr. Granger explained that the K-12 total does not include Running Start, Open Doors, and Transition to Kindergarten enrollment.

There was discussion regarding the bumping process that would follow approval of a reduction plan. The directors also discussed postponing action to consider other alternatives, and Director Galbraith affirmed that this would necessitate the proposal of new solutions. President Freeman added comments about the district's planning and communication efforts over the past six months, and he does not believe that additional time will make a difference. Director Creydt asked for clarification about the purpose of postponing the board's decision, and Director Swinburnson expressed a desire to ensure that productive suggestions are considered. Dr. Granger described efforts over the past several months to communicate via staff presentations and to solicit feedback and suggestions via a staff survey. Discussion continued, and Dr. Granger asked for the board's desired outcome for postponing the vote one week. Director Swinburnson indicated a desire for more time to consider stakeholder feedback, and Director Galbraith encouraged the SEIU leadership in the audience to provide their alternative proposal.
  The board voted unanimously to table action on adoption of Resolution 2324-08 Adoption of 2024-2025 Reduced Educational Program until Monday, April 29, 2024 at 7:00pm
Motion by Ryan Swinburnson, second by Erika Creydt
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  7. Board Comments and Future Meeting(s)
A. General Comments
Director Creydt shared information regarding a legislative bill that requires the district to adopt a policy regarding drug overdose. She shared packets of legislative information with the other directors.

Director Swinburnson expressed confidence that the current directors share a desire to work collaboratively as a board to do what is best for Blaine schools.
  B. Future Meeting(s) and Agenda Suggestions
The next regular board meeting is on Tuesday, May 28, 2024 at 7:00 p.m.

Suggestions for agenda items include:
High School Student Report
School Administrator Monthly Reports
2023-2024 HomeConnection Annual ALE Report
Enrollment Update and Financial Report
Superintendent's Report
Approval of Superintendent's Contract
Approval of Campus and Department Administrator Contracts
Approval of Non-Represented Staff Contract
2024-2025 Board Meeting Calendar
  Dr. Granger reminded the board that the next regular board meeting will be on a Tuesday due to the Memorial Day holiday.
  8. Executive Session
A. Executive Session
At 8:23 p.m., President Freeman announced that the board would move into executive session to review the performance of a staff member. No action would follow the executive session, which was expected to end at 8:38 p.m.
  9. Reconvene & Adjourn
A. Reconvene & Adjourn
At 8:36 p.m., the board returned to the meeting room and reconvened in regular session. The meeting was then adjourned by a unanimous vote.
Motion by Steve Galbraith, second by Ryan Swinburnson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  DATE MINUTES APPROVED: May 28, 2024
   
               _____________________________                            _____________________________
                        BOARD PRESIDENT                                                      SECRETARY/CLERK