Blaine School District No. 503
  Special Board Meeting: Budget Feedback
Tuesday, February 20, 2024
  Minutes
  1. Special Board Meeting
A. Call to Order and Review of Purpose
President Leu called the meeting to order, in the Blaine Middle School Cafeteria, at 6:00 p.m.
All directors were in attendance. Approximately thirty members of the community attended.
     Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Ford, Don Leu
  President Leu reviewed the purpose of this special meeting which was to solicit stakeholder feedback on the district’s budget planning considerations for the 2024-2025 school year. The information gathered in this meeting is to be used by the district’s administration team for planning budget reductions, as well as for determining the programs to prioritize for return later on. President Leu also explained the format of the meeting and the method of collecting the information.
  2. Stakeholder Feedback
A. Group Feedback Discussion
Starting at 6:10 p.m., meeting participants were divided into four (4) groups, with each group discussing one of the following specific questions. One board member listened and observed the discussion in each group, and a scribe wrote out the group's collective thoughts and ideas.
What are you most happy and proud of that you have seen the Blaine School District do in your time in the district? Also, if and when budget resources permit are their specific needs that should be addressed within the next budget?
Given your knowledge of school and district operations, what are areas of need that require additional resources in order to be successful? Please describe.
Please identify 3 programs or supports you feel are critical to student and staff success that you would identify as essential?
Should the levy provide sufficient capacity, what student or family supports should be offered beginning in 2024-25? Please consider student after school activities, hidden costs to participate, extra field trips, meal costs, and tutoring outside the school day. Please consider variances across age groups.
  B. Group Feedback Review
Participant groups rotated through a review of other groups' written thoughts and ideas. Points of agreement were notated and additional thoughts and ideas were provided.
  C. Group Feedback Presentations
The group discussions ended at 7:04 p.m., and President Leu commented on his frequent observation of feedback asking for "more". He indicated that feedback asking for “more” would be interpreted as that request being a priority for stakeholders, and he assured the meeting participants that every effort will be made to keep, or bring back, the priorities identified by stakeholders.
  The following individuals were designated by each group to present the group's collected thoughts and ideas to the Board of Directors. During this time, the board members had an opportunity to ask clarifying questions to ensure clarity and understanding.
Darren Benson
Bruce Bogle
Wayne Vezzetti
Lindsay Nowakowski
  In the presentation of Question #2, Director Ford asked for clarification about the desire for security.

President Leu expressed his appreciation for Dr. Granger's organizational efforts and he credited him with the orderly manner of conducting discussions and gathering information. President Leu also thanked the four administrators who served as the scribe in compiling each group's feedback.
  President Leu asked for any final questions, and discussion followed with several members of the audience who voiced the following concerns:
What will the school board do with the information gathered, and what is the board's next step?
President Leu explained the timeline of considering a reduction to programming. The feedback provided at this meeting will be used to prioritize programming decisions. President Leu acknowledged that it's very likely the district will have to make reductions.
What has to happen so the district can stop having to make reductions year after year?
Director Ford shared information he learned from his conversation with Representative Alicia Rule and he encouraged the community members to be vocal with the state legislature about the need for adequate educational funding. Director Lazarus explained his understanding that the district will use up ESSER funds this year and the current reductions are intended to bring balance to the district's budget in hopes that such significant cut-backs will not have to happen year after year. Director Creydt expressed a desire for the district to demonstrate increased creativity in how programs are operated and funded, including her recommendation to hire a grant writer.
Will the board come back to the community for feedback on what can be cut from the budget in order to retain the priorities identified at this meeting?
President Leu described the additional methods for community members to communicate their recommendations, including contact with board members, with the superintendent, and attendance at the Supper with the Superintendent each month.
Why didn't this meeting include discussion of what the community would recommend cutting?
President Leu reiterated his desire to keep the discussion positive. It can be presumed that any items not identified as a priority would be considered acceptable for reduction. President Leu again encouraged community members to communicate their recommendations using the methods described above. Director Ford commented on separate discussions being held by teachers.
The community should see lists of positives and negatives and the decision-making process should be done out in the open.
President Leu shared a comment from his personal perspective about the Blaine community’s challenge in working together more. He encouraged the community to draw together rather than pulling apart from one another. Although arguments can be healthy, he believes it would be more productive for the community to be united, particularly in presenting their needs to the state legislature. President Leu welcomed any community member to reach out to him individually for a personal conversation.
The Blaine School District community should unite with other school districts because the revenue shortfalls are not specific to Blaine.
    3. Adjourn
A. Adjourn
The feedback process ended at 7:37 p.m., and the special board meeting was adjourned by a unanimous vote.
Motion by Cliff Freeman, second by Erika Creydt
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Ford, Don Leu

DATE MINUTES APPROVED: February 26, 2024
                             ________________________________                            ________________________________
                                       BOARD PRESIDENT                                                           SECRETARY/CLERK