April 23, 2024 IMC
Health, HG&D, ELA Adoptions
3:30-5:30
In attendance: IMC Members: Michele Moriarty, Scott Mauk, Sarah Walker, Josette Mendoza
Presenters: Leigh Schwartz, Reina Garcia
Health, Human Growth and Development Presentations
Reina presented about why the change from FLASH to PTWY for elementary. The
adoption team looked at HIV via FLASH because it was written specifically for younger children.
FLASH has picked up the HIV component years ago when KNOW was eliminated. PTWY has
something different for each grade level. FLASH was not good for secondary- it was really
boring. The Three Rs was more engaging for the secondary kids (9th grade health). Lessons
match requirements.
GW Essentials for Health- could cover comprehensive text for the actual Health
Curriculum (using three Rs for the comprehensive hg&d. Reina addressed some of the
comments.
The State requires ⅘ GRADE BAND- we just use 5th grade. HIV is required starting 5th
grade. 8.5 hours each year at 5 and 6th grades (that gives time for all the questions).
3Rs is Rights, Respect, and Responsibility. The parent NGO is
Questions/Comments
How many hours in total for each level?
● 5 and 6- 8 ish Hours
● 7, 8- 16 Hours
● 9-12- 16 Hours
ELA Presentations
Leigh talked about the four year history of the ELA Adoption. Wit and Wisdom was
piloted and rejected in 22-23. The elementary teams came together in the middle of last year to
decide and explore five more curriculums and piloted Wonders and Amplify CKLA. Eight pilot
teachers in two cohorts who flipped inFebruary. The committee came together to talk about the
programs and there was split by grade levels and the strengths and weaknesses of each
program.
Primary folks liked CKLA and the 3-6 group liked Wonders. Things like trade books were
important to the 3-6 teachers while the foundational skills were important to the primary.
CKLA has a different 6th grade curriculum, so it is a challenge to adopt CKLA 6th grade.
There are open source CKLA open source curriculum that is aligned. They have not been vetted
by the team or the 6th grade team.
Wonders is K-6 all the way and was piloted. The teams were cordial and professional
despite the disagreements.
Questions/Comments

Foundational Skills versus some of the engaging pieces
Sarah expressed concern about special ed in Wonders
Josette said Wonders curriculum got the kids through 2 ½ essays versus paragraphs.
CKLA questions were literal, inferential and evaluative. Not as engaging as Wonders.
What about Trade Books? Readers are in place for all levels for Wonders… Leigh
indicated there were many different versions of supplemental materials and Journeys is used
differently everywhere. Encourages an agreed to supplemental list. Scope and sequence
around units of inquiry.
CKLA looks very different for primary and upper elementary.
IMC Only
Health 4-0 adopt
HG&D- 4-0 adopt
ELA-

