Blaine School District No. 503
  Regular Board Meeting
Monday, November 23, 2020
  Minutes
  1. Regular Board Meeting
A. Call to Order
Due to restrictions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic emergency, this meeting was conducted with remote director participation.
President Gibson called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
All Directors were in attendance.
     Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  B. Pledge of Allegiance
President Gibson led in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  C. Board Comments on the Agenda
There were no comments on agenda.
  2. Public Comment
A. Public Comment
Dan Persse addressed the board on behalf of the Blaine Education Association to affirm the nature of the district's Memorandum of Understanding with BEA. Mr. Persse described a recent survey in which 88% of the district's certificated staff members participated and 65% of those indicated that the district should continue to follow the local Health Department's recommendations related to in-person instruction during the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Persse pointed out that comparisons are being made to only two districts in the area that are currently providing in-person instruction to secondary students, while all other districts are continuing with remote learning. On behalf of the majority of teachers, the BEA asks that the board follow Health Department guidelines as agreed upon in their MOU.
  3. Reports
A. School Administrator Reports
Brief reports were provided by administrators from the following schools:
  Blaine Primary School: Students in preschool through 2nd grade are now in the building. Principal Jordan Radke shared photos of classrooms and described how teachers balance instruction for students both in the classroom and online, often simultaneously. Student drop-off and pick-up protocols were reviewed and have been operating smoothly. After a successful Pumpkin Hunt, the PTO is partnering again with local businesses to host a Snowman Hunt in the community. The PTO will also be launching a swag store online where Blaine gear can be purchased to show our Borderite pride. President Gibson asked for more detail about simultaneous in-person and online instruction and discussion followed. Mr. Radke explained supports being provided to teachers as they learn and refine this new instructional practice. Director McKinney asked about classroom capacity and Mr. Radke indicated that classrooms have had an average of about 9-10 students in attendance each day.
  Blaine Elementary School: Principal Craig Baldwin indicated that there is some overlap between primary and elementary school activities. Things have been going smoothly with students in 3rd grade since their return to the building on November 2, and students in 4th and 5th grade returned today. Conference Week and progress reports are taking place this week, and Dr. Baldwin explained that report cards would be done twice this year, on a semester schedule, in January and in June. Teacher growth goals were addressed in the area of guided reading. Director McKinney asked again about classroom capacity which Dr. Baldwin indicated is similar to the primary school. President Gibson asked if simultaneous in-person and online learning takes place in the elementary school as it was reported for the primary school, and discussion followed. Dr. Baldwin explained that students observe pre-recorded sessions followed by check-in time with their teacher, and simultaneous instruction is not provided throughout the whole day. Teachers are focusing on building relationships and connecting with students to provide the best possible quality instruction. President Gibson expressed a preference for the simultaneous instruction model and encouraged the elementary school to collaborate in this area with the primary school.
  Blaine Middle School: Students in 6th grade have been reading from several book series in the Fountas & Pinnell program, and Principal Darren Benson described how the book themes tie in to relevant topics such as kindness and compassion. The continued use of Lesson Launches help to catch the attention of students and keep their attention longer, leading to a more successful lesson. Mr. Benson shared examples of exercises that help to increase student vocabulary as well as the use of descriptive words. Teacher Conferences have had a high participation rate with parents and teachers meeting virtually. President Gibson asked about the frequency of teacher conferences. Mr. Benson explained that formal conferences are scheduled in the fall and the spring. Director McKinney asked about direction that has been given regarding attendance at fall and spring conferences, and Mr. Benson described the process for parents to sign up or be assigned meeting times.
  Blaine High School: Principal Scott Ellis described the Senior Class Parent Information Night on November 5 which included information pertinent to the Class of 2021. Graduation is scheduled on June 11, 2021.  Mr. Ellis provided detail about participation in outdoor athletic activities. Indoor practices have been paused due to recent WIAA regulations. Information about the transition to hybrid learning was provided to 9th grade families during a virtual meeting on November 18. The same information was also shared with freshman students during the school day. The school's Honor Society students are providing virtual tutoring services. This popular program is available to all K-12 students, with recent participation by students from 4th grade through high school. A virtual job fair is scheduled on December 4 which will focus on building connections between students and local Whatcom County employers. Director Thomas asked about employer participation in the job fair, and Director McKinney, who works with the local Business Alliance, answered with additional information. President Gibson added positive comments about the tutoring program. Director McKinney asked about the interest level at the 9th Grade Student and Parent Night, and Mr. Ellis indicated there were about 50 families in attendance.
  B. Enrollment Update
Executive Director of Finance and Operations Amber Porter reported on enrollment for the month of November which remains below the budgeted level. Overall, enrollment for the first three months of this year is 3% lower than expected. Director McKinney asked how student enrollment is tracked, and Ms. Porter described the process which is dictated by OSPI rules. Director Lotze asked where the students are going, and Ms. Porter indicated that some are moving out of the district, but most withdrawals are related to the pandemic. Many families are providing home based instruction, and others are transferring to online programs in other districts. President Gibson stated that he is thankful the decline isn't worse.
  C. Budget Status and Financial Report
Amber Porter provided a report on revenue and expenses for the month of October. She explained that revenue from the state is currently inflated because it is based upon budgeted projections. These inflated apportionment payments will be adjusted in January to align with actual enrollment and to recoup the inflated revenue for September through December. Tax collections received in October appear to be strong and will be reflected more accurately on November's report. The district's spending level continues to be low. The General Fund is trending similarly to past years with a typical spike in October due to tax collections. Revenues as percent of budget are similar to prior years while expenditures are trending lower due to operational adjustments aimed at slowing down spending. President Gibson asked about projections for next year and discussion followed. Ms. Porter explained potential impacts on the 2021-22 budget if there are no legislative interventions to protect schools. Additional negative impacts are anticipated for levy revenue, which is based upon enrollment this year, as well as LAP funding that is tied to Free & Reduced Lunch participation.
  D. WSSDA Conference Report & Legislative Update
WSSDA's Annual Conference was held virtually this year. A summary of information learned at the conference was shared by those who attended. Director Thomas found it too difficult to participate in the virtual context, but he intends to watch the recorded sessions later. Similar to the experience of students, he would have gotten more out of the experience in person. Director Lotze was impressed with the many creative methods people shared for serving students in new ways that have not been tried before. Many resources were made available that people have been working on. Director McKinney found the experiences of other school boards to be very illuminating. She was also interested to hear how differently everyone is responding to different things in different communities. She was reminded of topics that have been considered in the past, specifically the option of switching to a policy governance model as well as options for student voice on the board. Director McKinney shared what she learned about public comment periods during an open meeting, specifically the importance of legal ramifications related to engaging discussion with the public during the comment period and other Open Public Meeting Act requirements. The appropriate response to public comment during the meeting is that there will be follow-up outside of the meeting. President Gibson agreed that the conference was not the same as in person. Interesting topics during the Law Conference included employee benefit eligibility, what is and is not allowed in recording classrooms, and Washington State's broad Public Records Act which is often difficult and costly for school districts when responding to requests. Dr. Christopher Granger explained that he attended onboarding training to help him prepare for prospective director candidates next year. He also shared comments on the upcoming legislative budget session.

A Legislative Update was also provided by Director Laura McKinney. She attended a couple of House Education Committee sessions, but much of their discussions were irrelevant to what is happening now. She did bring up the issue of the 6-foot distancing rule, but she was told that all COVID-19 requirements are mandated by the governor. The Legislative Session starts in January.
    E. Superintendent's Report
Dr. Christopher Granger provided an update on current district activities.

WIAA has postponed the start of athletic seasons to February 1, 2021. The district's Athletic Director, Sean Linville, has been communicating with other Athletic Directors in the region to maintain collaborative relationships while navigating this unusual year.
  The board's annual reorganizational meeting will take place on December 15 with an abbreviated agenda. The board and superintendent will meet in executive session at a special meeting on January 11 for the annual evaluation of the superintendent's performance. A work session will precede the regular meeting on January 25 and will include mid-year reports from administrators.

Dr. Granger addressed the current status of the district's Phase-In Plan for returning students to their classrooms for hybrid in-person learning. On November 18, the Whatcom County Health Department recommended that middle and high schools pause in their plans to expand in-person instruction to secondary students. However, in the same recommendation, the Health Department indicated that those middle and high schools that have already opened do not have to return to remote learning. 
  Dr. Granger provided background on development of the district's current Phase-In Plan which started during the summer months and evolved over time in response to various directives from the local Health Department. He explained how the district's leadership has worked as a team throughout this process, and how parent and staff stakeholder input has influenced decision-making. Various concerns voiced by both parents and staff resulted in the shorter day for hybrid students to be on campus. This shorter daily schedule also addresses a multitude of factors related to the district's operational requirements during the COVID-19 pandemic. Other districts operating a full day schedule are experiencing challenges that have not been a problem in Blaine. Dr. Granger further explained differences between the facility capacity in Blaine as compared to other districts, as well as the impact of the 6-foot distancing requirement. Dr. Granger has been, and will continue, working hard every day to advocate for students' ability to safely access in-person learning. In addition to collaborating with Blaine's leadership team, he is in regular contact with the local Health Department and collaboratively working with administrators from other districts to navigate the ever-changing landscape of this pandemic. Certificated staff input was clear, in the planning process, that students would be better served by instruction from their teacher rather than from a software program, and teachers are trusting the district to abide by health authority guidelines to protect their safety. Dr. Granger explained the legal requirement that instruction be provided by a certificated teacher, and the limited availability of certificated substitutes makes it imperative that the district's actions support the health and safety of its staffing resources. He further explained his efforts to address the inequity of other districts being allowed to continue current in-person instruction for secondary students. According to Risk Pool and legal counsel, the district would be open to enormous liability exposure by acting against the Health Department's recommendation, despite the inequity of other districts being allowed to continue current in-person instruction for secondary students. Dr. Granger recommended pausing, for one week, on the return of 6th and 9th grade students to hybrid in-person instruction which had previously been slated to start on November 30. In that week, the district would reassess how to proceed with the phase-in of hybrid learning for secondary students.
  A long discussion on this topic ensued, and the directors contributed many comments and questions. Director Thomas asked about Whatcom County's increase in COVID-19 cases. Dr. Granger explained the current backlog of test results, and he described the information that is available which shows an average of 40 new cases every day. As both an employer and an educational institution, the district has an obligation to both staff and students.
  Director McKinney voiced passionate frustration with teachers for insisting that they can serve students better than a software program but then opposing the return of students to their classrooms. As a parent, she feels the district is doing a disservice to students. Although she believes in following rules, she doesn't believe the rules make sense and doesn't believe that health authorities are considering the bigger picture. Dr. Granger reiterated his request for more time to work collaboratively with the Health Department on a resolution to ensure all students are being treated equally. He shared his own frustration and disappointment related to social media comments accusing him of doing nothing. By following recommended guidelines up to this point, the district has established trust with the Health Department, and Dr. Granger would prefer to continue working in conjunction with the health authority in advocating for students rather than going against them.

Director Thomas described frustration he has heard from community members, and parents in particular, who do not feel that their voices are heard. He indicated that parents are blaming the board as well as the superintendent for not doing more to get students back in their classrooms. He acknowledged that Dr. Granger is working hard to resolve this and move forward, but he doesn't know how the board should respond to parents who don't feel that they are being heard.

President Gibson shared his opinion that the closure of schools both locally and nationally seems to be arbitrary. He added comments regarding the CDC's recent statement about students being safe in schools, and he believes that students and families are being hurt. He feels frustrated and wants to help those hurting families.

Dr. Granger read aloud from a letter provided by the district's attorney which described the potential for liability exposure if the district violated the Health Department's recommendation. Dr. Granger also provided a statutory description from the Washington Administrative Code about implications for violating an order. Bringing students back to school against the Health Department's recommendation would likely be considered, by a court of law, to be a willful violation of the health authority's order. Discussion followed regarding whether the Health Department's recommendation was an order or a suggestion. Director McKinney stated that she would rather have to account for violating the Health Department's order than having to account for a student suicide. She commented that teachers are able to make health decisions for themselves, but the decision is being made for students who have no option to choose for themselves.
  Director Lotze disagreed and stated that the district cannot ignore the concerns of teachers. Without teachers, we don't have a school. She expressed concern regarding staff being asked to remain in close contact with more than a dozen students for four hours each day. Director Thomas interjected that teachers at the K-5 level are doing that now, and Dr. Granger commented on the low transmission rates that have been established in studies regarding younger students.
  President Gibson indicated that the attorney's counsel and rationale need to be clarified. He also believes that the Health Department's recommendation fails to follow the scientific data as reported by the CDC. The special meeting scheduled for the next day is needed for clarification. All directors indicated they will be in attendance on November 24 at 7pm. Director Thomas asked if formal action would be required at the special meeting, and Dr. Granger explained that an action item was on the agenda so that the board would have the option of taking formal action if desired.
  President Gibson ended the discussion with assurance to Dr. Granger that the board is not against him but appreciates his good work.
  4. Consent Agenda
A. Approval of Minutes - October 26, 2020 Regular Board Meeting
The board approved the minutes of the October 26, 2020 Regular Board Meeting.
Motion by Joan Lotze, second by Todd Nunamaker
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  B. Personnel Matters
The board approved Personnel Matters as detailed on the Consent Agenda.
Motion by Joan Lotze, second by Todd Nunamaker
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  C. Financial Matters
The board approved Financial Matters as detailed on the Consent Agenda.
Motion by Joan Lotze, second by Todd Nunamaker
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  D. Contracts & Agreements
The board approved the following service contracts:
2020-2021 CEL Secondary Literacy Training Agreement
2020-2021 Senden Center Contract
Whatcom County PPE & Technology Assistance Agreement (CARES Act)
Whatcom County Behavioral Health Services Amendment (CARES Act)
Whatcom County Distance Learning Support Amendment (CARES Act)
Motion by Joan Lotze, second by Todd Nunamaker
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  E. Second Reading & Adoption of Policies
The board approved "Second Reading" and adoption of the following policies:
Policy 2024 Online Learning
Policy 3115 Students Experiencing Homelessness
Policy 3510 Associated Student Bodies
Policy 6112 Rental or Lease of District Real Property
Motion by Joan Lotze, second by Todd Nunamaker
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  5. Action Items
A. Policy Manual Revisions - Updates to Policies: First Reading
Dr. Granger explained that these updates are part of a large set of policy manual revisions released by WSSDA in October 2011. At the December meeting, the board will consider second reading and adoption of these updates as well as retirement of related policies included in the overall policy manual revisions. The board approved "First Reading" of updates to the policies listed below.
Policy 3114 Part Time Home Based or Off Campus Students
Policy 4000 Public Information Program
Policy 4020 Confidential Communications
Policy 4320 Cooperative Programs with Other Districts, Public Agencies, Private Schools, and Daycare Agencies
Policy 5404 Family Medical and Maternity Leave
Policy 6000 Program Planning Budget Preparation Adoption and Implementation
Policy 6800 Safety Operations and Maintenance of School Property
Policy 6810 Energy Management Education and Conservation
Policy 6920 Construction Design
Policy 6950 Contractor Assurances Surety Bonds Insurance and Change Orders
Motion by Todd Nunamaker, second by Laura McKinney
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  6. Board Comments and Future Meeting(s)
A. General Comments
President Gibson described the meeting's conversation as robust, and the discussion will continue tomorrow.
  Director McKinney asked to revisit the topic of incorporating student voice on the board. Dr. Granger also attended a WSSDA Conference session on that topic, and he indicated that this can be added to the January meeting agenda for discussion.
  B. Future Meeting(s) and Agenda Suggestions
The next regular board meeting will be at 12:00 p.m. on Tuesday, December 15, 2020. Although this meeting will not include the luncheon and student entertainment of past years, it will consist of an abbreviated agenda including the following:
Consent Agenda (including policy updates)
Election of Officers and Reorganization of the Board
Superintendent's Report
A special meeting will also be scheduled at 5:00 p.m. on Monday, January 11, 2021 for the purpose of reviewing, in executive session, the performance of a public employee.
  7. Executive Session
A. Executive Session
At 8:55pm, it was announced that the board would move into executive session for the purpose of reviewing the performance of a public employee. The executive session was anticipated to last for up to thirty (30) minutes. No action was anticipated following the executive session. After a short break, the executive session started at 9:11pm but was not able to continue due to interruptions. A separate virtual meeting was opened for the board's executive session which then started at 9:20pm.
  8. Reconvene & Adjourn
A. Reconvene & Adjourn
At 9:34pm, the executive session ended and the meeting reconvened into regular session. There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned by a unanimous vote.
Motion by Laura McKinney, second by Todd Nunamaker
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
                                 ________________________________                            ________________________________
                                      BOARD PRESIDENT                                                               SECRETARY/CLERK