Blaine School District No. 503
  Regular Board Meeting
Monday, October 26, 2020
  Minutes
  1. Regular Board Meeting
A. Call to Order
Due to restrictions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic emergency, this meeting was conducted with remote director participation.
President Gibson called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
All Directors were in attendance.
     Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  B. Pledge of Allegiance
President Gibson led in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  C. Board Comments on the Agenda
President Gibson commented on the new feature of including second reading policies on the Consent Agenda. No changes to the agenda were requested.
  2. Good News
A. Staff Recognition
The Board of Directors recognized Food Services Supervisor Laurie Pike for more than 26 years of dedicated service to Blaine students and the community. In that time, Ms. Pike has seen her own children and now her grandchildren attend school in Blaine. She wrapped up her tenure with the district on October 16. Ms. Pike was in attendance virtually and all those present expressed their appreciation for her service.
  B. Community Recognition
The Board of Directors also recognized Dorita Gray whose leadership in the community's Blaine Fine Arts program has impacted the lives of hundreds of Blaine students. Mrs. Gray's contributions include 23 "Arts & Jazz" festivals, 5 wind ensemble trips to Japan, and 30 years of chaperoning band trips to basketball games, tournaments, parades and festivals. Dorita Gray was in attendance virtually, and she expressed appreciation for the honor of serving in the arts. She will continue to be present in the community and hopes that the BFA leadership role will be assumed by someone with energy and new ideas. She encouraged others to consider getting involved as a BFA board member. All those present expressed their appreciation for her service.
  3. Public Comment
A. Public Comment
Ryan Swinburnson addressed the board regarding students returning to school in person. His own son is a freshman, and the online format has not been an effective platform for his learning. He is also missing out on extracurricular activities due to the pandemic. Mr. Swinburnson commented on private schools that are in session in Whatcom County and around the state, as well as on the low number of positive COVID-19 cases in Whatcom County. He stressed the importance of all students being able to return to school, not just elementary students. He further commented that students can shop and go to restaurants, but cannot attend school which he believes is due to liability concerns. Mr. Swinburnson has been an attorney for 20 years and it's been his experience that people use liability as a reason not to do something. He believes that January is too far for older students to wait, and he encouraged the board to find ways to bring them back soon using the hybrid plan that was originally adopted for the school year.
  4. Reports
A. School Administrator Reports
Brief reports were provided by administrators from the following schools:
  Blaine Primary School: Principal Jordan Radke reported that kindergarten has been going smoothly on a hybrid schedule, with safety and screening protocols functioning well. Planning efforts are currently underway for the return of 1st and 2nd grade students on November 2. There will be a "Back to School Night" for 1st and 2nd grade families on October 27 to provide information about what to expect. Mr. Radke described "The Great Pumpkin Hunt" which is being sponsored by the PTO and local businesses.
  Blaine Elementary School: Third grade students will also return to a hybrid schedule on November 2 and Dr. Craig Baldwin described preparations for their arrival. BES is also participating in "The Great Pumpkin Hunt" along with primary school students. Dr. Baldwin explained how students are getting creative with learning at-home. He shared photos showing students with paper chains they created in a science experiment.
  Blaine Middle School: Principal Darren Benson described the focus this month on student attendance and grades. Students in Blaine and across the country are struggling to keep up their grades. BMS has started to address this issue in a coordinated weekly family outreach program. Professional development work is also ongoing. A REACH Highly Capable event on October 21 provided information for parents and other interested attendees. Mr. Benson described the plan for a virtual open house on October 27, as well as virtual teacher conferences in November.

Director McKinney asked about the schedule for each grade level to return to in-person instruction, and she asked for the rationale behind the timeline. Discussion followed and there was explanation about the desire to bring all transition grades (3rd, 6th, and 9th) into buildings before Winter Break so that they have an opportunity to get a feel for their new school. Discussion continued regarding the makeup of classrooms and the need to balance instruction between students in the building and those online. Director McKinney shared her thoughts about students who are struggling with remote learning and her opinion that all students should be able to return prior to Winter Break. While everyone agreed that this would be ideal, the logistics for making that happen need to be carefully determined. Darren Benson and Cabe VanderYacht described the positive impact of the middle school's family outreach program which is providing extra support to struggling students.

Director Thomas asked how many older students are responsible for supervising younger siblings and discussion followed. President Gibson asked about the possibility of bringing back a cohort of students who are struggling the most and discussion continued regarding the district's efforts to provide student's with needed support and to carefully coordinate plans for returning students without overwhelming the system.
Dr. Granger described his concerns regarding continuation of the 6-foot rule, and he encouraged the board to impress upon state legislators the importance of addressing this matter. From an outsider's perspective, it may appear that bringing students back is simple, but in reality it takes a tremendous about of work. The district is continuing to depend upon guidance from health authorities and the state government.

Director Thomas described comments he has heard in the community about getting back to "normal" within social distancing restrictions. He believes the public needs to be educated about how these restrictions impact schools more significantly.
  Director McKinney directed comments to the audience in attendance assuring them that they are heard and the board will make it a priority to continue to advocate for students.
  Blaine High School: Principal Scott Ellis described plans for freshman students to return to a hybrid schedule on November 30. With that timeline, both A and B students will have a week in the building before Winter Break, and the remaining students are slated to return in January. A virtual open house took place on September 30 with over 100 participants. There was good attendance by senior families for the school's recent FAFSA activities. College in the Classroom students are now enrolled and registering for classes. Math PLC work is ongoing, and the CTE Advisory Committee met on September 21. Mr. Ellis described virtual college visit and scholarship information that has been compiled for seniors. Mr. Ellis added words of appreciation for Dorita Gray, thanking her publicly for the impact and lessons she has provided for students over the years.
  B. Teaching & Learning Report: 5-Year CTE Plan Update
Wayne Vezzetti, CTE Director, provided the CTE Advisory Committee's annual report on the district's 5-Year CTE Plan. He explained the program's statutory requirements, then reviewed current course offerings. Mr. Vezzetti commented on some of the courses, including the switch from Microsoft Office to Google apps for Business Education and the limited offerings for Family and Consumer Science due to COVID-19. This year, a career choices class has replaced Skilled and Technical Science classes. Mr. Vezzetti indicated that slide #7 should reference "2 sections" of engineering for STEM, not 1 section. CTE enrollment has increased this year thanks to popular, new Health Science offerings. Mr. Vezzetti described plans and preparations for the future offering of a welding program, as well as more dual credit opportunities and Industry Recognized Certificates within the next five years.
  C. Enrollment Update
Executive Director of Finance and Operations Amber Porter reported on enrollment for the month of October which has declined slightly. The grand total for K-12 enrollment was 2,141 FTE, including Running Start and Open Doors, which is less than the budgeted total of 2,200 FTE. Ms. Porter continues to hope that enrollment will start to increase again as the year progresses.
  D. Budget Status and Financial Report
Amber Porter provided a report on revenue and expenses for the month of September, including close-out payments for the 2019-20 school year. The purchase of a new bus was referenced in the Transportation Vehicle Fund. A 3-year comparison was reviewed and Ms. Porter indicated that the district is starting in a favorable spot. Revenue as percent of budget is typical and expenditures as percent of budget are actually less than normal due to spending restrictions currently in effect during this uncertain time. The district is making every effort to be as conservative as possible with spending in order to meet future needs as they arise.
  E. Legislative Update
A Legislative Update was provided by Director Laura McKinney. She reviewed a list of 15 position priorities compiled for submission to WSSDA's Legislative Committee. Director McKinney explained her expectations for her continuing involvement as the board's Legislative Representative.
  F. Superintendent's Report
Dr. Christopher Granger explained that, from this point forward, second reading and adoption of policies will be placed on the Consent Agenda. As with other Consent Agenda items, directors can request, at the beginning of the meeting, that a policy be moved to Action Items for further discussion.

Updates were explained for the "High School Credit for Middle School Students (Grade 8)" section of Procedure 2410P Graduation Requirements.

Lay-off notices have been issued to certain classified staff based upon the district's staffing reductions. Laid off staff members will continue to be offered substitute work as needed and will remain subject to recall for 2 years.

In athletics, outdoor sports specific practices began on October 19 and indoor sports specific practices will start on November 19.

The collaborative Connections program for outdoor learning on Fridays began on October 23 and will be expanding from just kindergartners to K-2 students.

Dr. Granger explained the projected timeline for phasing students back to a hybrid schedule. 1st, 2nd, and 3rd grade students are scheduled to return on November 2, and 4th-5th grade students are scheduled to start on November 23. If conditions allow, 6th and 9th grade students would start on November 30, and after Winter Break, 7th, 8th, 10th, 11th, and 12th graders would return on January 7. Dr. Granger described the work being done in various areas, including Transportation and Food Service, to ensure that this happens smoothly. As this transition proceeds slowly, there has been time to make adjustments as the complicated process is navigated. He further explained that social distancing measures function very differently in schools than they do in businesses.

Due to the pandemic, the state's new requirement to screen early learners for dyslexia has been postponed until next year. Executive Director of Federal & Special Programs Dawn Walker has taken the initiative in planning implementation of this program, and this year's efforts will be to focus on learning about the impact of dyslexia.

Four directors and Dr. Granger will attend WSSDA's virtual annual conference from November 18-21. The November 23 meeting agenda will include an opportunity for each attendee to share what they learned. Dr. Granger also provided dates when WSSDA will facilitate an opportunity for school board directors to share comments directly with House Education Committee Leaders. Dr. Granger has signed up to speak, and he encouraged others to do the same.

December's board meeting is scheduled for noon and will include reorganization of the board. Consideration may be given to changing the meeting time to 7pm.
  There was discussion regarding participation requirements for athletics, including the use of masks and symptom screening protocols.
  G. Facility Use Discussion
Dr. Granger shared information with the board regarding recent facility use issues. Due to the pandemic, all district facilities are currently closed to the public and are not available for use by community groups. Policy 4260 is slated for review in early 2021, but that process can be moved forward at the board's direction in response to recent issues that have brought this matter up in the community.

Each board member was asked to share their thoughts on this matter. It was acknowledged that school facilities have been provided by the community, and there is a need to balance facility use with corresponding cost. Director Gibson expressed concern about supervisory and custodial staffing, but if the facility is open for school it could also be made available for outside use. Director Nunamaker asked about groups that he has observed using the stadium complex. School athletes are participating in scheduled afternoon workout sessions. There has also been unauthorized use by people hopping the fence when the gate is locked. Those accessing the area without permission are also not observing mandated health and safety guidelines. Director McKinney's comments focused on a desire for students and community members to have a place where they can recreate and feel welcome doing so. She spoke in favor of pursuing a partnership with the city or parks department to provide supervision for the use of school athletic facilities by community members. She further commented on the specificity of the language in Policy 4260 which doesn't allow for more fluid interpretation of activities that benefit students vs. commercial activities. Director Thomas recalled his involvement in the board's discussions on this topic before being elected as a director. He believes that the policy's intent was to prioritize facility use for Blaine students. He is concerned that the Fee Schedule doesn't specify priority for use by Blaine community groups. He believes that the district is doing a disservice to the high school senior who recently wanted a commercial photography session in the stadium.
  There was discussion regarding how to ensure that students are being served without opening up to abuse by outsiders. Dr. Granger described his original recommendation to bring stakeholders to the table for a work session in January, followed by policy updates to the board for first reading in February and adoption in March which would allow for implementation in April. He stressed the value of having all groups at the table to discuss the facility use calendar to ensure that each group has a fair opportunity for facility access.

Director Lotze commented on the range of details that must be addressed which most people are not aware of, and she encouraged communication with the public about these complications as well as options being considered.

Director McKinney shared comments on the procedural language and discussion continued regarding user categories.
  Dr. Granger encouraged the board to take the time to address this issue on the original timeline to allow all stakeholders an opportunity to provide input. He does not believe that the categories are generally wrong, but they can be refined. He reiterated that school facilities are closed right now because of the pandemic and to maintain focus on providing students with an education. Once athletics start up again, there may not even be availability for community groups. When facilities are open again and back to normal, those open times could be made available for things like senior pictures. 
  All agreed to take a step back and stay on track with the plan for review as described to allow all sides to be heard. Director McKinney asked for consideration to be given to requests that come up in the interim, and it was agreed that Dr. Granger could consider allowing for exceptions to the Fee Schedule on a case by case basis with the understanding that such decisions during this period of time would not set a precedent.

Director McKinney asked if people could access the stadium complex briefly to take a senior picture while the field is being used for athletic practice. Dr. Granger explained the requirement for symptom screening in order to enter the stadium complex. Having people show up to take a picture while the field is in use by athletes would cause a distraction. He would rather focus energies on getting students back into their classrooms.

President Gibson expressed confidence in Dr. Granger's ability to find a compromise in order to accommodate the individual student who wants their senior picture taken on the field. Dr. Granger indicated that he would act on the board's direction.
  5. Consent Agenda
A. Approval of Minutes - September 28, 2020 Regular Board Meeting
The board approved the minutes of the September 28, 2020 Regular Board Meeting.
Motion by Laura McKinney, second by Todd Nunamaker
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  B. Personnel Matters
The board approved Personnel Matters as detailed on the Consent Agenda.
Motion by Laura McKinney, second by Todd Nunamaker
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  C. Financial Matters
The board approved Financial Matters as detailed on the Consent Agenda.
Motion by Laura McKinney, second by Todd Nunamaker
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney

D. Contracts & Agreements
The board approved the following service contracts:
2020-2021 Opportunity Council Preschool Services Contract
InvestED (Midas Education) Student Data Privacy Agreement
North Cascades Institute CONNECTIONS Program MOU
Motion by Laura McKinney, second by Todd Nunamaker
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  E. Second Reading & Adoption of Policies
The board approved "Second Reading" and adoption of the following policies:
Policy 2255 Alternative Learning Experience Courses
Policy 3120 Enrollment
Policy 3122 Excused and Unexcused Absences
Policy 3143 Notification and Dissemination of Information about Student Offenses and Notification of Threats of Violence or Harm (In addition to updates in Policy 3143, content from policies 3144 and 4314 was merged into this single policy. The board concurrently approved retirement of policies 3144 and 4314.)
Policy 3205 Sexual Harassment of Students Prohibited
Policy 4300 Limiting Immigration Enforcement in Schools
Motion by Laura McKinney, second by Todd Nunamaker
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  6. Action Items
A. Policy 2024 Online Learning: First Reading
Dr. Granger explained the updates which were provided by WSSDA several years ago. He anticipates that there will be future updates to this policy stemming from current experiences in this area. The Board approved, without discussion, "First Reading" of Policy 2024 Online Learning.
Motion by Joan Lotze, second by Laura McKinney
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  B. Policy 3115 Students Experiencing Homelessness: First Reading
Updates were described and Dr. Granger explained that the district would continue to decline WSSDA's optional language related to informed consent for homeless students. Director McKinney expressed concern that the policy includes significant amounts of duplicated procedural language, and discussion followed regarding WSSDA's role in creating policy recommendations. 
  The board approved "First Reading" of Policy 3115 Students Experiencing Homelessness
Motion by Dougal Thomas, second by Todd Nunamaker
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  C. Policy 3510 Associated Student Bodies: First Reading
Dr. Granger explained the updates which require fees to be waived for Free and Reduced Lunch Program students. The district will establish protocols to protect those students from being stigmatized. There will be a financial impact due to this loss of revenue.
  The board approved "First Reading" of Policy 3510 Associated Student Bodies.
Motion by Dougal Thomas, second by Laura McKinney
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  D. Policy 6112 Rental or Lease of District Real Property: First Reading
There was discussion regarding the policy's reference to carrying a weapon on district property that is rented as a domicile. This would only be relevant when leasing real property as a domicile.
  The board approved "First Reading" of Policy 6112 Rental or Lease of District Real Property
Motion by Todd Nunamaker, second by Dougal Thomas
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  7. Board Comments and Future Meeting(s)
A. General Comments
The timeline for review of facility use was repeated:
January 2021: Community Stakeholder Meeting (up to two directors could attend)
February 2021: Board consideration of first reading of policy updates
March 2021: Board consideration of second reading and adoption of policy updates
April 2021: Implementation of changes
Dr. Granger added that he believes the fees are currently in alignment, or less than, the costs for facility use.
  B. Future Meeting(s) and Agenda Suggestions
The next regular board meeting will be at 7:00 p.m. on Monday, November 23, 2020.

Suggestions for agenda items include:
School Administrator Reports
Enrollment Update & Financial Report
Legislative Update
WSSDA Conference Report
Superintendent's Report
Policy Updates
All agreed to leave the meeting time on December 15 at 12:00 p.m. 
  8. Executive Session
A. Executive Session
At 10:01 p.m., it was announced that the board will move into executive session for the purpose of reviewing the performance of a public employee. The executive session was anticipated to last for up to thirty (30) minutes. No action was anticipated following the executive session. After a short break, the board went into executive session at 10:09 p.m.
  9. Reconvene & Adjourn
A. Reconvene & Adjourn
At 10:42 p.m., the executive session ended and the meeting reconvened into regular session. There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned by a unanimous vote.
Motion by Laura McKinney, second by Joan Lotze
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
                                 ________________________________                            ________________________________
                                      BOARD PRESIDENT                                                               SECRETARY/CLERK

 