  Blaine School District No. 503
  Special Board Meeting
Wednesday, August 5, 2020
  Minutes
  1. Special Board Meeting
A. Call to Order
Due to restrictions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic emergency, this meeting was conducted with remote director participation.
After some technical difficulties, President Gibson called the meeting to order at 6:37 p.m.
All directors were in attendance.
     Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  2. Action Items
A. Resolution 1920-16 Adopt Reopening Plan
Superintendent Dr. Christopher Granger reviewed the recommendation released on August 4 by the Whatcom County Health Department. He indicated that the purpose of this meeting is for the board to discuss the matter, and there is an action item on the agenda which could be considered or could be tabled at the board's discretion. Current and forecasted COVID-19 case statistics were referenced, as well as staff concerns for safety. Dr. Granger recommends starting the year with remote learning and then developing a phased-in approach to bring students back gradually over time.

Director McKinney suggested starting from the board's unified goal (i.e. to educate children) and working backwards to see how best to do that in the current circumstances. She commented on the messaging from OSPI and the Governor indicating this is a local decision, and she described her concerns for the needs of young students, parents needing to work, etc. Discussion continued regarding the possibility and timing of returning students to their classrooms for in-person instruction. All agreed that it is the district's ultimate goal to safely bring students back to buildings. However, concerns included the potential impact of having to shut down again if virus cases spike after bringing hundreds of students together on campus for in-person instruction. Reference was made to varying media reports related to children's susceptibility to illness and transmission of COVID-19. President Gibson asked if any directors were in disagreement about the recommended approach to return students in phases, and no director replied.  As the first day of school draws near, staff concerns about returning in person have increased. Dr. Granger affirmed that the district's staff love children and want to do what's best for them, and online instruction will be greatly improved over what was provided in the spring.

Discussion continued and examples of success and failure in other workplaces were provided. All acknowledged a desire to provide relief for the many families who are in dire need.
  Dr. Granger shared preliminary thoughts on his recommendation for a phased-in approach, and discussion continued. The district would continue to work closely with the Health Department in compliance with their guidelines. A successful phase-in of returning students would also increase adults' confidence in the safety of returning to campus. Dr. Granger commented on the importance of adults in the community modeling the same social distancing measures that students and staff are expected to adhere to in schools.
  During remote learning, staff would be given the option to return to the buildings to teach from their own classrooms. Special Education families, and those without internet access, would be included in the first phase of returning students, followed later by preschool and kindergarten. For the first several weeks of each phase, case statistics would be monitored to determine the feasibility of moving on to the next phase. Dr. Granger affirmed that the district's ultimate goal is to get all students back into the buildings, and he reiterated the importance of adults in the community modeling appropriate social distancing behavior.
  Director Lotze indicated agreement with the phased-in approach. Director Thomas expressed a desire for the board, as elected officials, to consider the input of constituents, and discussion continued. Dr. Granger described the mixed feedback he has already received, and he will be holding another Community Q&A session on August 6. Discussion continued regarding media reports from other areas of the country, as well as how the Health Department's recommendation is being considered differently by local private schools. Director Nunamaker expressed hope that the school staff will actually show up, and he is concerned to hear that they are wavering as the first day of school approaches. Dr. Granger informed the board that, although most families surveyed chose the hybrid model over online, based upon recent survey data from the Blaine Education Association, the district would not have enough certificated staff willing to work on campus in order to open school in the previously planned hybrid model.

Director McKinney expressed a desire to find a balance that keeps people safe, allows the district to make progress, and doesn't put students at a disadvantage for many years. Director Thomas questioned if the phased-in approach was fair and equitable to all students. President Gibson commented on older students being more at risk.

During the board's discussion, observers posted questions using Zoom's Q&A and Chat features. Dr. Granger indicated that the rules of order for a special meeting do not allow for public comment during the board's deliberations, but he assured the board that he will address questions from patrons outside this meeting.

Discussion continued regarding the board's desire to take action at this meeting or table the issue. All agreed to table consideration of Dr. Granger's recommendation in order to provide an opportunity for community input. Directors McKinney and Nunamaker agreed to attend and observe Dr. Granger's Community Q&A session on August 6. Dr. Granger does not anticipate that his recommendation will change, but he indicated a willingness to facilitate as much or as little discussion as the board desires so that directors feel confident in their decision on behalf of families. He acknowledged that the decision to start remotely is very emotional and difficult. Staff and students need time to gradually get comfortable with the situation and with the tools. Director McKinney acknowledged the attendees' desire for certainty, and she indicated that the only certainty the district can provide at this time is the remote option which will continue to be available to families no matter what.
  3. Adjourn
A. Adjourn
The directors agreed to hold another special meeting on Saturday, August 8, starting at 6:30pm.

Dr. Granger thanked the board, as well as the attendees from the community. He assured all that he is working every day on efforts to get students back into their classrooms.

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 7:51 p.m. by a unanimous vote.
Motion by Todd Nunamaker, second by Laura McKinney
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
                                 ________________________________                            ________________________________
                                      BOARD PRESIDENT                                                               SECRETARY/CLERK
 