BREMERTON SCHOOL DISTRICT 100-C
Special Board Meeting - Study Session / Discussion
Thursday, October 17, 2024
Generated by Marlaina D Simmons on Friday, October 18, 2024
1. MEETING OPENING
The meeting of the Bremerton School District Board of Directors was called to order by President Rotter at 3:33
p.m. The meeting was held in the Curriculum Library located at Bremerton School District at 134 Marion Ave.,
Bremerton, WA 98312.

Members Present:
Ms. Alyson L Rotter, President
Ms. Jonee Dubos
Ms. Carolynn M Perkins (Joined at 4:19 p.m.
Mr. John P Hurley, Vice President (Joined at 3:49 p.m.)
Ms. Karen Bolton
Administrators Present:
Ms. Donna Colosky, Interim Superintendent
Mr. Mark Mayfield, Principal, Renaissance High School
Ms. Erin Wilkinson, Principal, Bremerton High School

Mr. John Prosser, Assistant Principal, Bremerton High School
Ms. Melanie Garrett, Assistant Principal, Bremerton High School
Mr. Ralph Wisner, Principal, Mountain View Middle School
Ms. Korene Calderwood, Principal, Naval Avenue Elementary
M. Carol Mendoza, Principal, View Ridge Arts Academy
Ms. Carre Potis, Principal, West Hills STEM Academy
Ms. Kimberly Powell, Principal, West Hills STEM Academy
Mr. Sam Cameron, Principal, Crownhill Elementary
M. Carly Takata, Principal, Kitsap Lake Elementary
Ms. Teneka Morley-Short, Director, Teaching for Learning: Standards-Based Curriculum and Instruction
Ms. Iva Scott, Assistant Superintendent
Ms. Julie Fairall, Principal, Armin Jahr Elementary
2. STUDY SESSION
Comprehensive School Improvement Plans Summary

All Bremerton School District Principals presented their Comprehensive School Improvement Plans for the
2024-25 school year. All CSIP goals were built to align with the Strategic Plan goals.
Director Dubos asked the principals what, if anything, is missing from the Strategic Plan.
asked how we continue to imbed student voice and choice into our Strategic Plan.

Principal Wisner

Principal Potis shared that Costco donated 400 backpacks and they will able to deliver school supplies during
home visits.
Director Bolton asked the principals their thoughts on house system in all Elementary schools? Principal Takata
shared that it is time consuming to implement and her staff didn’t think they had enough time for this school
year after training. Principal Wisner shared that he has staff going to the training in January

Director Hurley asked what resources the schools are lacking that the board can be advocating for. Principal
Potis shared that pushing them to tie everything to Strategic Plan has been helpful. Principal Wisner said that
the district should review resource allocation and the different needs between Elementary and Secondary. He
also shared that we need to look at what needs to be done at every level to get students to select more rigorous
courses. Principal Fairall said that they could use more positive caring adults from community inside schools.
President Rotter asked the Principals how the board can tell the stories of the good work happening in schools
to celebrate wins.
3. ADJOURNMENT
At 5:01 p.m., the meeting was adjourned.

Alyson Rotter, Board President
MS

Donna Dearin-Colosky, Sec

to the Board

