BREMERTON SCHOOL DISTRICT 100-C
Regular Board Meeting 5:00 p.m.
Thursday, September 5, 2024
  Generated by Marlaina D Simmons on Friday, September 6, 2024
  MEETING OPENING 
The meeting of the Bremerton School District Board of Directors was called to order by President Rotter at 5:00 p.m. The meeting was held in the Boardroom located at Bremerton School District at 134 Marion Ave., Bremerton, WA 98312. 
    Members Present:                                      
Ms. Alyson L Rotter, President                       
Ms. Jonee Dubos
Ms. Carolynn M Perkins
Mr. John P Hurley, Vice President
  Members Absent:
Ms. Karen Bolton
  Administrators Present:
Ms. Donna Colosky, Interim Superintendent
Ms. Teneka Morley-Short, Director of Teaching for Learning Standards Based Curriculum and Instruction
Ms. Patty Glaser, Supervisor, School Safety & Security
Ms. Brittane DeBard, Executive Director of Learning and Leadership Development
Ms. Karen Bevers, Director of Communications
Ms. Carol Bailie, Human Resources Supervisor
Ms. Cynthia Cantwell, Director of Teaching for Learning: Continuous Improvement
Ms. Kelsey McCreary, Director, Special Services and Early Learning
Ms. Iva Scott, Assistant Superintendent of Teaching for Learning
Mr. Garth Steedman, Assistant Superintendent, Finance, Operations and Human Resources
  B. Land Acknowledgement
Director Perkins read the Land Acknowledgement and explained the importance of the public acknowledgement.
  C. Pledge of Allegiance
Student Representative to the board, Nora Ramstad led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Action: D. Approval of Agenda
President Rotter shared that there had been a request to put the Superintendent’s report first in the reports section of the agenda. Director Dubos made a motion to approve the agenda with that revision. The motion carried unanimously.

3. CONSENT AGENDA
President Rotter presented the Consent Agenda for questions or comments. The Consent Agenda included: A. Minutes of the Regular Board meeting of August 15, 2024, B. Minutes of the Special Board meeting of August 29, 2024, C. Payroll for issue date of August 30, 2024, D. Policy 2410 High School Requirements, E. Policy 2170- Career and Technical Education, F. Policy 2413- Equivalency Credit Opportunities, G. Policy 2000-Student Learning Goals, H. Policy 2005- School Improvement Plans, I. Agreement between BSD Food Services and Kitsap Mental Health Services, J. WA Youth ChalleNGe Academy Intergovernmental Agreement
Resolution: to approve the 2024-2025 working agreement between Bremerton School District and the Washington Youth ChalleNGe Academy, K. HR Board Report Sept 5-1, L. Interim Superintendent Contract, M. Resolution 2024/2025-06; Imprest Funds, N. New Superintendent Actions & Resolutions. Director Hurley made a motion to approve the Consent Agenda as presented. The motion carried unanimously.
  3. OATH OF OFFICE
A. Interim Superintendent
President Rotter administered the Oath of Office to swear in Interim Superintendent Donna Dearin-Colosky.
  4. REPORTS
A. Superintendent's Report (Agenda revised to place the Superintendent’s Report first).
Interim Superintendent Donna Dearin-Colosky shared an update on Summer Institute and the first day of school. She recognized Crownhill Elementary and Armin Jahr Elementary for receiving award from the Washington School Recognition Program for Academic Achievement.

She also shared an update on the Mountain View Middle School Athletics Complex. The district received the certificate of occupancy so students were able to use the field on the first day of school (except the track that was still being worked on).
  B. Board Reports
Director Hurley shared that he attended some of Summer Institute and welcomed staff back. He also attended the Mountainview Middle School open house and commented that it was a very welcoming atmosphere.

Director Dubos shared that she met with Mr. David McBride and Mony Thach with OAC to get ready to pick the design team. She said that the district is in good hands.

Director Perkins shared that she was sad to miss first day of school appreciated seeing pictures.

President Rotter commented that the start of school year is a lot of fun and there is a lot of energy. She was sad to miss Summer Institute this year and she thanked Director Dubos for being the liaison to the board for Bond. She expressed gratitude that we having a "working board”.
  C. 2024 Capital Bond Program Monthly Update
David McBride with OAC provided an update on the Bond project. The selection committee has been meeting to select the Design Team for the Elementary Schools. There were 8 design teams that applied and they have narrowed it down to 4 teams for the next stage of the process which is an interactive meeting where they will demonstrate how they work together and with OAC and BSD. There is a slight change to report provided by OAC, they not quite ready to kick off advisory committee. They are still in the process of selecting members.
The are panning on interviewing a commissioning agent and getting the consolidated facilities plan ready this month too. They hope to bring the recommendation for a design build team to the next meeting.

Director Hurley shared that he is looking forward to cooling of the buildings. He asked if we will be using the same design for both Elementary schools? Mr. McBride responded that it is still to come to decide the designs and that there might be some similarities but each site and programming are different as well.
  5. PUBLIC INPUT
A. Request to Address the Board
There was no public input at this meeting.
  6. DISCUSSION/ACTION ITEMS
A. Resolution 2024/2024-01; 180 Day Waiver
Assistant Superintendent Iva Scott presented Resolution 2024/2024-01; 180 Day Waiver. Districts are required to have a 180-day calendar but districts can waive up to 5 days for conferences. We are asking to waive 4 days (2 days in the Fall and 2 in the Spring). We will still meet hourly requirements.

Director Perkins is thrilled that we are continuing student led conferences. It provides the opportunity for students to articulate to their parents what they have done and learned.
  Director Perkins made a motion to approve Resolution 2024/2024-01; 180 Day Waiver. The motion carried unanimously.
  B. Resolution 2024/2025-02; Attendance Awareness Month
President Rotter shared Resolution 2024/2025-02 that proclaims September Attendance Awareness Month.

Hurley echoed importance of attendance and shared that he is glad the district takes it seriously
  Director Hurley made a motion to approve Resolution 2024/2025-02; Attendance Awareness Month. The motion carried unanimously.
  7. CALENDAR OF EVENTS
A. Important Dates to Remember
Upcoming dates were noted.
  8. BOARD REFLECTIONS
Information: A. Directors' Reflections on this Evening's Meeting
Director Perkins is excited about the new Elementary schools. She thanked Director Dubos for working with OAC. She recognized schools that got awards and congratulated them.

Director Dubos is excited about the awards and recognized attendance was called out because attendance can lead to higher academic performance. She is also excited about the Mountain View Sports Complex. She shared that West Hills has new sidewalks and they make a huge difference for safety.

Director Hurley thanked Interim Superintendent Colosky for stepping in and for her time. He also welcomed Nora back. He noted that Armin Jahr is one of our lowest Socio-Economic status schools and so to see growth is amazing. He congratulated both schools. He is excited about the Mountain View complex and shared that both of his kids got to use new facilities while doing track. He recognized the op ed about the East High property and shared that the board needs to ensure the districts needs are met. There could be a need to build another school in the future so they cannot let go of that property.

Student Representative Nora Ramstad reported that the cell phone policy is showing progress and she believes they will be consistent. Today was picture day and tomorrow is the first football game at 7:00. She is most excited that this Summer she has a lot of new opportunities including ALA Girls state. She thanked her counselors for pushing her to do that.

President Rotter said the op ed has been on her mind and that the board’s job is to make sure they have the district's best interest in mind. She was so excited to see kids actually on the MVMS field and commented that it is such a gift thanks to our community. She commended the community for supporting the vision. She appreciated the updates on the bond and hearing about the achievement awards. She commented that academic achievement isn’t something that happens overnight or with one thing. It speaks to the complexity of education in general and it is a testament to looking back at all the things the district has been working at including culture, sense of belong, and instruction. She recognized Brittane DeBard for all her work with principal.
  Interim Superintendent Colosky said that it is great to be back and she missed the people in her year off and seeing children’s smiles.
  9. ADJOURNMENT
A. Estimated End Time: 6:00 p.m.
At 5:51 p.m. Director Perkins made a motion to adjourn the meeting. The motion carried unanimously.
    ___________________________________      ________________________________________
Alyson Rotter, Board President                          Donna Dearin-Colosky, Secretary to the Board
MS
 