BREMERTON SCHOOL DISTRICT 100-C
Regular Board Meeting, 5:00 p.m.
Thursday, March 7, 2024
  Generated by Marlaina D Simmons on Friday, March 8, 2024
  MEETING OPENING 
The meeting of the Bremerton School District Board of Directors was called to order by President Rotter at 5:01 p.m. The meeting was held in the Boardroom located at Bremerton School District at 134 Marion Ave., Bremerton, WA 98312. 
Members Present:                                       Members Absent:
Ms. Alyson L Rotter, President                     Ms. Carolynn M Perkins
Mr. John P Hurley, Vice President
Dr. Karen J Bolton
Ms. Jonee Dubos
Ms. Nora Ramstad, Student Representative to the Board
Mr. Dillon Lovestedt, Student Representative to the Board
    Administrators Present:
Dr. James Crawford, Superintendent
Ms. Iva Scott, Assistant Superintendent
Dr. Garth Steedman, Assistant Superintendent
Mr. Jon Bell, Director, Community Support & Special Education
Ms. Karen Bevers, Director, Communication & Community Engagement
Ms. Julie Fairall, Assistant Director, State and Federal Programs
Ms. Teneka Morley-Short, Principal, West Hills STEM Academy 
Ms. Carol Bailie, Supervisor, Human Resources
Ms. Cynthia Cantwell, Assistant Director of Assessment and Data Literacy
Ms. Cathie Seevers, Director of Finance
    B. Land Acknowledgement
Director Bolton read the Land Acknowledgement and explained the importance of the public acknowledgement.
  C. Pledge of Allegiance
Director Dubos led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Action: D. Approval of Agenda
Superintendent Crawford stated that there were changes to the Human Resources Report. Director Bolton moved to approve the Agenda as presented.  The motion carried unanimously.
  2. BOARD RECOGNITION
March 11-15 is School Support Professionals Week (formerly known as Classified Staff Week). This tradition started in 1975 to recognize the contributions of Education Support Professionals in the public school system and acknowledge the difference they make in our schools!
  President Rotter read the names of all of our classified employees with 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35 and 40 years of service and those in attendance we asked to stand.
3. CONSENT AGENDA
President Rotter presented the Consent Agenda for questions or comments.  There were none.  The Consent Agenda included: A. Minutes of the Special Board Meeting / Study Session of February 15, 2024, B. Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of February 15, 2024, C. Overnight/Out-of-State Student Travel, D. Payroll for issue date February 29, 2024, E. Acceptance of Donations
F. Updated Exempt Supervisor's Salary Schedule 23-24, G. Pacific Lutheran University Automatic Admission and Data Share Agreements, H. Updated Academic Calendar for 2023/2024, I. Personal Service Contract for Special Services, J. Human Resources Report 2023-2024-10. Director Dubos moved to approve the Consent Agenda as presented.  The motion carried unanimously.
  4. REPORTS
A. Student Report
Student Representatives to the Board Nora Ramstad and Dillon Lovestedt presented a report to the Board covering recent and upcoming Bremerton High School athletic and school events. A few highlights from their presentation include:
Boys Basketball place 5th in the State
BHS hosted a watch party in the PAC
Semancik Crab Feed
Collage Concert that highlighted various music programs
Sweetheart Swirl Winter Dance
DECA State Competition
BHS Robotics team placed first globally in robotics competition
  B. Board Reports
The Board shared information on some of their recent activities and/or events they have attended since the last Board meeting.
Director Dubos attended the Semansik Crab Feed and thanked all the donors, attendees and staff that worked the event
Director Bolton-
March 7th is Sine Die
Senate Bill 5462- AN ACT Relating to promoting inclusive learning standards and instructional materials in public schools. This bill states it would require school districts to adopt policies and procedures, including the histories and contributions of marginalized or underrepresented groups.
As the legislative session progressed and the number of bills continued to be pared as cutoff deadlines arrived, most of the school district advocates narrowed our focus on four key issues: MSOC, Paraeducators, Pupil Transportation, and Special Education.
MSOC allocations were increased to $28.81 per student
Appropriations Committee-adopted the minimum staff allocations for paraeducators, office support and non-instructional aides from 0.068 to 0.076.
HB 2180 and SB 6014, which would increase the cap to 17.25 percent. The Senate’s budget provides funding to increase the cap to 15.6 percent. An amendment is waiting for action that would move the cap to 16 percent.
Legislators provided funding in the budget to assist school districts in transporting “special passengers” (special education students; homeless students under the federal McKinney-Vento Act; and foster students). The bill dies without further action.
Director Rotter chaperoned sweetheart swirl. She shared that there is so much diversity within the walls of our schools and there is also so much acceptance of each other and it was heartwarming and made her proud.
  C. Superintendent's Report
The Ground-breaking ceremony for West Sound Technical Center is tomorrow at 2:00 pm. The week of March 18th is the next round of Strategic Planning meetings for all teams including the Core Planning Team, Alignment Team, Instructional Focus Team, Student Voice Team and Principal Advisory Team.
  5. DISCUSSION/ACTION ITEMS
Action: Discussion: A. Bremerton High School Excursion to France, April 2025
Elise Erickson shared information on the Bremerton High School Excursion to France in April of 2025. This will be her fifth time taking students to France. She hosted trips in 2015, 2018, 2022, 2023. Currently there are 18 travelers signed up. If they signed up in February the cost was $3,819 now $4019. There will be one chaperone for every 6 students.

Director Bolton thanked Elise for taking the children on this trip.
There were no questions. Director Bolton moved to approve the excursion. President Rotter queried the student representatives for their advisory votes.  Both Nora and Dillon voted aye.  There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  
    Action: B. Education Support Professionals Week; Resolution 2023/2024-13
There were no questions. Director Hurley moved to approve the proclamation. President Rotter queried the student representatives for their advisory votes.  Both Nora and Dillon voted aye.  There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  
  Action: C. Policy 3207-Harrassment, Intimidation and Bullying (2nd Reading)
Iva Scott presented Policy 3207 for a 2nd reading in the place of Patty Glaser. Minor changes were made to the policy to align with HB 1207. The policy clarifies that HIB is related to students. There were no additional questions or comments. Director Dubos moved to adopt policy 3207. President Rotter queried the student representatives for their advisory votes.  Both Nora and Dillon voted aye.  There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  
  6. WRITTEN REPORTS
Noted: A. Enrollment Report, March 2024, B. Highly Capable Procedure 2190P Revision, C. 2023-24 Mid-Year Staff Absence Report. There were no questions.
  7. CALENDAR OF EVENTS
A. Important Dates to Remember
Upcoming events were noted.
  8. PUBLIC INPUT
A. Request to Address the Board
Adrian Wright addressed the board on democracy and accountability. Mr. Wright commended the board on their selection of Superintendent Crawford. He shared that he looks to a school board that is skeptical and can have disagreement and debate. He also recommended in the future involvement of parent voice.
  9. BOARD REFLECTIONS: A. Directors reflections on this evening's meeting
All directors shared their expressed their gratitude for our School Support Professionals and for all of Director Boltons work as the legislative rep.
Director Dubos shared that she recognizes that the written reports take time and appreciates the time taken to put them together.
Director Bolton thanked the legislature for the hard work they are doing.
Director Hurley echoed Director Dubos comments about written reports. He shared that his Grandfather was a custodian in Seattle for over 40 years and realizes that positions such as janitorial and front desk are instrumental to the district. He also shared his excitement for West Sound Tech groundbreaking ceremony.
Director Rotter reflected that there is a lot going on in the district to be excited about and there is something magical happening this year. She said that it feels good to be part of Bremerton. She shared that a lot goes into being on a school board outside of meetings and that she feels fortunate that we are in a community that has so much commitment to our schools.
Student Representative Nora Ramstad commented on how much Bremerton High School has grown in Athletics. She shared that AVID classes got together to discuss cell phone policies. She also thanked everyone in the district that are the bones of the community.
Student Representative Dillion Lovestedt commented how this year has been the best year of Bremerton sports in a long time and it can only go up with more sports to come!
Superintendent Crawford share that what he has appreciated about this board was that they were clear about norms and working together and that he was being invited in and they understand the difference between dialogue and debate with disagreement.
  10. ADJOURNMENT: Action: A. Estimated End Time: 6:30 p.m.
At 5:50 p.m., Director Dubos made a motion to adjourn.  The motion carried unanimously and the meeting was adjourned at 5:50 p.m.
  Minutes to be approved at the upcoming Board meeting of March 21, 2024.
    ___________________________________      ________________________________________
Alyson Rotter, Board President                          James Crawford, Ed.D., Secretary to the Board
MS
   