BREMERTON SCHOOL DISTRICT 100-C
Regular Board Meeting, 5:00 p.m.
 Thursday, April 11, 2024
  Generated by Marlaina D Simmons on Friday, April 12, 2024
  MEETING OPENING 
The meeting of the Bremerton School District Board of Directors was called to order by President Rotter at 5:02 p.m. The meeting was held in the Boardroom located at Bremerton School District at 134 Marion Ave., Bremerton, WA 98312. 
Members Present:                                       Members Absent:
Ms. Alyson L Rotter, President                     Ms. Jonee M Dubos
Mr. John P Hurley, Vice President
Dr. Karen J Bolton
Ms. Carolynn M Perkins
Ms. Nora Ramstad, Student Representative to the Board
Mr. Dillon Lovestedt, Student Representative to the Board
    Administrators Present:
Dr. James Crawford, Superintendent
Ms. Iva Scott, Assistant Superintendent
Dr. Garth Steedman, Assistant Superintendent
Ms. Brittane DeBard, Executive Director, Learning & Leadership Development
Ms. Teneka Morley-Short, Principal, West Hills STEM Academy 
Ms. Carol Bailie, Supervisor, Human Resources
Ms. Patty Glaser, Supervisor, School Safety & Security
Ms. Cathie Seevers, Director of Finance
Mr. Nikhil Gautam, Director of Technology Services
Ms. Cynthia Cantwell, Director of Academics, SE, and Cognitive Learning
  B. Land Acknowledgement
Director Hurley read the Land Acknowledgement and explained the importance of the public acknowledgement.
  C. Pledge of Allegiance
Director Perkins led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Action: D. Approval of Agenda
Superintendent Crawford stated that there were changes to the HR Report. Director Bolton moved to approve the Agenda as presented.  The motion carried unanimously.
  2. BOARD RECOGNITION
A. Month of the Military Child / "Purple Up" Day
Presidents Rotter provided an overview of Month of the Military Child and recognized the military connected students and families within our district.
  B. Volunteer Appreciation Month
Presidents Rotter provided an overview of Volunteer Appreciation month and expressed her heartfelt gratitude for the many volunteers that support our district.
  3. CONSENT AGENDA
President Rotter presented the Consent Agenda for questions or comments.  There were none.  The Consent Agenda included:
A. Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of March 21, 2024, B. Payroll for Issue Date of March 29, 2024, C. Payroll for the Issue Date of April 15, 2024, D. Vouchers for March 2024, E. Human Resources Report-12 F. Out of State/Overnight Student Travel, H. Purchase of Two New Buses, I. Approval of NW Boiler, Inc. proposal to install two new boilers at Crownhill Elementary School, J. Change order for Nexus Building Envelope Consultants inspections contract. Director Bolton moved to approve the Consent Agenda as presented.  The motion carried unanimously.
  4. REPORTS
A. Student Representative's Report
Student Representatives to the Board Nora Ramstad and Dillon Lovestedt presented a report to the Board covering recent and upcoming Bremerton High School athletic and school events. A few highlights from their presentation include:
Girls Softball had a 15-20 win
Girls Tennis had 2 wins against Port Angeles
Boys Soccer- PA both JV and Varsity won
Cheer tryouts this week
National Honor Society fundraiser on April 30th from 5-8 at Bluberry Frozen Yogurt
ASB and Class officer elections coming at the end of month
  B. Board Reports
The Board shared information on some of their recent activities and/or events they have attended since the last Board meeting.
Director Hurley attended the National School Board Association conference in New Orleans, LA and found the sessions to be powerful and informative. Ruby Bridges, who integrated school in New Orleans at 6 years old in 1960, was one of the keynote presenters. Joseph Schriever, whose family integral in the development of Special Olympics was another keynote presenter. He attended a session on electric busses, passion of his and hopes Bremerton School District can add infrastructure for electric vehicles. He also attended a session on AI and how districts can use Chat GBT/AI to be useful to prepare students for the future.
Director Bolton will be traveling to Spokane next week to meet with all the State’s Legislative Reps. They will be reviewing 85 proposals from school boards across the state and then decide if it will go to general assembly in September to vote on. From there, they choose the top 10 to bring to legislature. She has been getting a lot of questions about Inititative 2181 on Parental Rights and why it was brought in house instead of going to the voters. The decision was made because the majority of what is in the bill is already occurring and brining it in house allows legislators to remove anything that does not align with their values.
Director Perkins was excited to hear about NSBA and thanked rest of board for work.
Director Rotter shared that one thing she found most impactful from Ruby Bridges Keynote was that no matter what was going on as she walked in the school that day, the moment she walked in the teacher was the most loving and caring adult to her. That is the case for the kids in our district. She shared that Joseph Shriver’s keynote was around his work around dignity and that they were challenged during keynote about how they see people. She also attended the session on Electric buses and found it fascinating. She enjoyed being outside of Washington and hearing perspectives from other states. Some is very affirming to where we are at in Washington.
  C. Superintendent's Report
Superintendent Crawford asked Brittane Debard to introduce new principal of View Ridge Arts Academy. Brittane introduced Carol Mendoza who comes to Bremerton with 18 years of Admin Experience starting in Seattle Public Schools and is now on Bainbridge Island.

Ms. Mendoza shared that she feels honored to be next principal of View Ridge Arts Academy.
  D. Mountain View Middle School Sports Complex Project Update
Assistant Superintendent Garth Steedman provided an update on the Mountain View Middle School Sports Complex. The proposal was brought to the school board in October of 2021 and was adopted in November. Community presentations began in early 2022. The Levy passed in Feb of 2022 and in June 2023 site clearing began. The project is currently within budget and has a projected completion date of August 16, 2024.

Director Hurley asked about the universal lacrosse lines and Dr. Steedman responded that we are currently getting prices on adding them.
Director Rotter thanked Dr. Steedman for providing the update to "closed the loop' on what is being done with levy dollars.
  E. General Fund Balance Status
Assistant Superintendent Garth Steedman provided an update on the district’s 5 major funds.
There is currently just under 10 million in the general fund. Looking at last year we always run in the deficit this time of year. We are a little lower this year but in a normal pattern. April when levy money come in it will pop us up. We also have safety net funds coming in august with SPED funding. The goal is the break even.
  F. Bond Update
Cory Plager with DA Davidson and Mark Prussing with ESD 112 shared information on our recently passed Bond:
Schools get to take advantage of tax exempt interest rates on Bonds.
An interest rate cushion was built in when created plan.
The goal is to get the lowest interest cost and get earnings.
They are confident they can meet the commitment we made to tax payers
The plan is to sell bonds June and have the money to district in July
  5. DISCUSSION/ACTION ITEMS
Action: A. Resolution 2023/2024-18; Unlimited Tax General Obligations Bonds, 2024
The Resolution was presented by Assistant Superintendent Garth Steedman.
Director Hurley asked what is the risk to the district of not being able to pay? What would that look like?
Dr. Steedman said that people would have to stop paying their property taxes Mark Prussing share that the district never gets the money, the county levies the dollars and that there is very little risk. Director Bolton asked if we pay interest up front every year or just the first year? Mr. Prussing shared that we pay interest twice a year.
Director Bolton moved to approve Resolution 2023/2024-18 as presented. President Rotter queried the student representatives for their advisory votes.  Both Nora and Dillon voted aye.  There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  
    Action: B. Bremerton High School Excursion to Italy
Deann Irish presented the request for an Excusion to Italy in June of 2020. She has previously done tours with this organization and has gone to France. They put safety and education first. Students can also earn credit for an additional fee. There are 6 students signed up already and there will be an Informational session next week.
Director Bolton asked if there is a need for a minimum amount of students.
Ms. Irish responded no but the more the merrier.
Director Rotter asked where students are being recruited from?
Ms. Irish responded that there was an international studies club and she is thinking of bringing it back.
Director Bolton asked if  there any subsidy for cost.
Ms. Irish responded that there isn’t but there will be opportunities for fundraising.
Question from the audience- Can students be sponsored?
Ms. Irish responded that they can.
Director Bolton shared that she hopes we can look at other funding revenues to open it up to more students.
Director Perkins moved to approve proposed travel to Italy in June of 2025 as presented. President Rotter queried the student representatives for their advisory votes.  Both Nora and Dillon voted aye.  There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  
    Action, Recognition: C. Resolution 2023/2024-16; Month of the Military Child
Director Rotter honored and recognized military connected children and reminded people of purple up day on April 15th. Director Bolton moved to approve Resolution 2023/2024-16, Month of the Military Child, as presented. President Rotter queried the student representatives for their advisory votes.  Both Nora and Dillon voted aye.  There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  
  Action: D. Resolution 2023/2024-17; Volunteer Appreciation Month
Director Rotter expressed her heart felt appreciation our volunteers and all they do for our district. Director Perkins moved to approve Resolution 2023/2024-17 proclaiming April 2024 as Volunteer Appreciation Month in the Bremerton School District, as presented. President Rotter queried the student representatives for their advisory votes.  Both Nora and Dillon voted aye.  There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  
  6. WRITTEN REPORTS
Noted:  A. Enrollment Report, B. 3207P; Procedure for Prohibition of Harassment, Intimidation, and Bullying of Students. 2022P- Procedure: Use of Personal Electronic Devices. There were no comments questions on reports.
  7. CALENDAR OF EVENTS
A. Important Dates to Remember
Upcoming events were noted.
  8. PUBLIC INPUT
A. Request to Address the Board
No public input was given.
  9. BOARD REFLECTIONS
A. Directors' reflections on this evening's meeting.
Director Perkins shared that it is exciting to see as we progress on the bond. Because of all the staff and community, this is happening and she thanked everyone. She is also excited about the new Sports Complex and believes that our students will excel even more because sports are a connection.
Director Bolton expressed that hearing about Ruby Bridges is very personal for her. Her parents fled the oppressive South to raise their family in Pennsylvania. A few years later she was sent to Kindergarten and it was hard being a young black girl in a white neighborhood. She feels that there has been a shift in the protection of our kids in schools and she will continue to advocated to provide a warm and welcoming environment for our kids. She loves Bremerton for how we take car of our kids and she will always fight for them.
Director Hurley stated that our volunteers are often times the welcoming person kids look to at school. They can be the one person a kid relates to or makes them feel welcome. He appreciates the love and caring nature of Bremerton schools. His brother had special and all the support his brother received is why his parent kept them here. He also feels it is important for students to get to experience other cultures such as the trip to Italy and appreciates the teachers taking the time to create that experience.
Student Representative Nora Ramstad feels that is an exciting time of year. There is a peak that shines through from all the work throughout the school year. She is grateful that as a student of color she never realized she was any different until she was older. It was never a barrier within the district and she loves that.
Student Representative Dillon Lovestedt expressed his excitement about sports the sports complex.
Director Rotter felt that the sharing tonight has been pretty cool and she was feeling very grateful that his board leads the way we do.
Dr. Crawford shared that he has been going out to schools spending about 3 hours getting to know staff. Today he went to Crownhill and spent time with school leadership and he commented that they are amazing and that they focused on all the wonderful things they have been working on and all the kids that inspire them. He asked if they would be interested in bringing in Legislators and having a panel of real-life teacher experiences and he is excited about the possibility.
  10. ADJOURNMENT
A. Adjournment - estimated time 7:00 p.m.
At 6:24 p.m., Director Perkins made a motion to adjourn.  The motion carried unanimously and the meeting was adjourned at 6:24 p.m.
    Minutes to be approved at the upcoming Board meeting of May 2, 2024.
    ___________________________________      ________________________________________
Alyson Rotter, Board President                          James Crawford, Ed.D., Secretary to the Board
MS
 