BREMERTON SCHOOL DISTRICT 100-C
Regular Board Meeting / Recognition / Reception 5:00 p.m. Thursday, May 16, 2024
  Generated by Marlaina D Simmons on Friday, May 17, 2024
  MEETING OPENING 
The meeting of the Bremerton School District Board of Directors was called to order by President Rotter at 5:02 p.m. The meeting was held in the Boardroom located at Bremerton School District at 134 Marion Ave., Bremerton, WA 98312. 
  Members Present:                                      
Ms. Alyson L Rotter, President                     
Mr. John P Hurley, Vice President
Dr. Karen J Bolton
Ms. Carolynn M Perkins
Ms. Jonee M Dubos
Ms. Nora Ramstad, Student Representative to the Board
Mr. Dillon Lovestedt, Student Representative to the Board
  Administrators Present:
Dr. James Crawford, Superintendent
Dr. Garth Steedman, Assistant Superintendent
Ms. Teneka Morley-Short, Principal, West Hills STEM Academy 
Ms. Carol Bailie, Supervisor, Human Resources
Ms. Patty Glaser, Supervisor, School Safety & Security
Ms. Cathie Seevers, Director of Finance
Ms. Kelsey McCreary, Assistant Director of Special Education & Early Learning
Ms. Julie Fairall, Assistant Director of State and Federal Programs
Ms. Karen Bevers, Director of Communication and Community Engagement
Ms. Brittane DeBard, Executive Director of Learning and Leadership Development
Ms. Carly Takata, Principal, Kitsap Lake Elementary
Mr. Mark Mayfield, Principal, Renaissance High School
Mr. Sam Cameron, Principal, Crownhill Elementary
Mr. Ralph Wisner, Principal, Armin Jahr Elementary
Mr. Jon Bell, Director of Special Services
Mr. John Fisher, Director of Facilities and Small Works
Ms. Lori Campbell, Enterprise Database Supervisor
Ms. Lynn Johnson, Supervisor, Child Nutrition Services
B. Land Acknowledgement
Director Bolton read the Land Acknowledgement and explained the importance of the public acknowledgement.
  C. Pledge of Allegiance
Director Perkins led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Action: D. Approval of Agenda
Superintendent Crawford stated that there were changes to the HR Report. Director Perkins moved to approve the Agenda as presented.  The motion carried unanimously.
2. BOARD RECOGNITION
A. WASBO Outgoing Board Member Recognition
WASBO Executive Director Brianne King recognized outgoing Secretary/Treasurer, Cathie Seevers, CSBA, and thanked her for her service on the WASBO Board of Directors from 2021-2024.
  B. Bremerton School District Retiree Recognition
Bremerton School District retirees were invited to be honored and recognized for their years of service to the District and its students as well as friends and colleagues. Retirees in attendance included: 
Sue Billings- recognized by Carly Takata
Suzanne Wilson- recognized by Carly Takata
Wanda Liner- recognized by Cathie Seevers
Lori Campbell- recognized by Garth Steedman
Lynn Johnson- recognized by Garth Steedman
Leesa Bowie- recognized by Carol Bailie
Jennifer Erickson- recognized by Sam Cameron
Deb Hall- recognized by Jon Bell
Joyce Johnson- recognized by Ralph Wisner
Lance McCoy- recognized by John Fisher
Donnie Winn- recognized by John Fisher
Mary McKenzie- recognized by Mark Mayfield
Liz Shelton- recognized by Teneka Morley-Short
Debbie Swanson- recognized by Korene Calderwood
MaryJane Magnenat- recognized by Korene Calderwood-
Paula Rupel- recognized by Kimberly Powell
Click here to view the bios for all retirees!
  3. RECESS FOR RECEPTION
A. Estimated time: 5:30 - 5:50 p.m.
Recess began at 5:53 p.m. and the meeting resumed at 6:15 p.m.
  4. CONSENT AGENDA
President Rotter presented the Consent Agenda for questions or comments.  There were none.  The Consent Agenda included:
A. Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of May 2, 2024, B. Payroll for issue date of May 15, 2024, C. HR Report-14, D. April 2024 Vouchers, E. Acceptance of Donations, F. Policy 2004- Performance Improvement Goals, G. Policy 2411- Certificate of Educational Competency,
H. Policy 2340- Religious Related Activities and Practices, I. Final Acceptance of the Bremerton High School 1st Floor IBEX upgrades as performed by ATS Automation, Inc., J. MOU between Olympic College and Bremerton School District. Director Hurley moved to approve the Consent Agenda as presented.  The motion carried unanimously.
  5. Reports
A. Student Representative's Report
Student Representatives to the Board Nora Ramstad and Dillon Lovestedt presented a report to the Board covering recent and upcoming Bremerton High School athletic and school events. A few highlights from their presentation include:
Track and Field districts are tomorrow 5/17/24
Fast Pitch made their way to districts for first time in 10 years.
Boys Soccer season concluded last Thursday
We hosted the Olympic League Golf Tournament on May 6th
Bremerton High School hosted the first (and hopefully annual) Multicultural festival and assembly. There was dancing, performances, and food.
Prom was a masquerade ball held at the Marvin Williams Center
Broadway Knights- Choir students performed Broadway music including dancing
Both Nora and Dillon attended Be Bremerton on May 4
Armed Forces Day parade this Sat- both will be in parade as Ambassadors
Next Tuesday is AP Capstone night
  B. Board Reports
Director Perkins has been keeping up with WSSDA federal updates. She expressed her appreciation for Dr. Crawford’s advocacy for the gap in funding for federal funding for our military families
Director Bolton thanked the district for providing numbers around MSOC (Materials supplies operating costs). Costs are increasing but funding isn't keeping up. She will be advocating for that an increase in funding. The Legislative Assembly handbook will be coming out for review with all of the legislative priorities. Top priorities will be done right before WSSDA conference in November.
Director Rotter expressed interest in putting forward recommendation for CTE funding earlier than 6th grade. She urged everyone to pay attention to forums/town hall for any candidates currently running for office to hear their thoughts on education polices. The last AVID mentorship meeting was last Friday. This is her third cohort of students. Last week, 6th and 8th AVID students got to spend day at Olympic College. The 8th graders got to interview faculty about potential careers.
  C. Superintendent's Report
Dr. Crawford presented to the Kitsap Realtor association about passing our bond and levy and what to expect coming up with the Reagan brining in 3,000 families. They discussed how can we continue to build in Bremerton and issues around permitting. Dr. Crawford and Steedman also recently met with the city about what to expect with our new buildings.

Dr. Crawford then allowed Dr. Steedman to introduce and welcome Meredith Stevens, the new Director of Finance. Meredith comes from Sumner Bonney-Lake School District and has over 20 years of experience in school district finance.
  D. 2023/2024 General Fund Status
Dr. Garth Steedman will provide current year budget information to include General Fund revenues, expenditures, and fund balance for the current school year through April 30, 2024. We currently have 14.9 million in the general fund balance. We received funds in April bringing up revenue. Last year at time we had spent 62.9% of our budget and this year we are at 67%. We are 1.3 million more in the red.
  6. DISCUSSION/ACTION ITEMS
A. Policy 2107- Comprehensive Early Literacy Plan
Kelsey McCreary, Assistant Director of Special Education and Early Learning, presented revised Policy 2107 for approval. Bremerton did not previously have a policy for our Comprehensive Early Literacy Plan.  This policy outlines that students will be screened for literacy skills and how parents will be informed about their child’s progress in literacy. Director Bolton moved to approve Policy 2107 as presented. President Rotter queried the student representatives for their advisory votes.  Both Nora and Dillon voted aye.  There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  

B. Policy 2104- Federal and/or State Funded Special Instructional Program
Julie Fairall, Assistant Director of State and Federal Programs, presented revised policy 2104 Federal and/or State Funded Special Instructional Program for a first read. The proposed updates to this policy include language to prioritize a more equitably-focused funding model for Title I and State/Federal- funded grant programs (such as LAP, Transitional Bilingual Program, etc. Director Perkins moved to approve Policy 2104 as presented. President Rotter queried the student representatives for their advisory votes.  Both Nora and Dillon voted aye.  There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  
  C. Policy 2108- Learning Assistance Programs
Julie Fairall, Assistant Director of State and Federal Programs, presented revised policy 2108 Learning Assistance Programs for a first read. The proposed updates reflect our current practices. Learning Assistance Program services are prioritized for students based on needs and are provided through an integrated system of support (MTSS). In accordance with state guidance and in alignment with Proclamation 20-05, a section is included to ensure LAP funds are used to address the academic and nonacademic needs of students resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic; this section will likely be retired following September 1, 2025. Director Dubos moved to approve policy 2108 as presented. President Rotter queried the student representatives for their advisory votes.  Both Nora and Dillon voted aye.  There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously. 
  D. Policy 2421- Promotion/Retention
Julie Fairall, Assistant Director of State and Federal Programs, will be presenting revised Policy 2421- Promotion/Retention for a first read. The updates reflect our Bremerton SD values around promotion and retention. The more comprehensive Procedure will be updated following this policy revision with our Teaching for Learning team. Director Bolton moved to approve Policy 2421 as presented. President Rotter queried the student representatives for their advisory votes.  Both Nora and Dillon voted aye.  There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously. 
    7. WRITTEN REPORTS
Noted: A. Alternative Learning Experiences. There were no comments questions on the report.
  8. CALENDAR OF EVENTS
A. Important Dates to Remember
Upcoming events were noted with the addition of the Renaissance High School Graduation on May 31st at 7:00 pm.
  9. PUBLIC INPUT
A. Request to Address the Board
No public input was given.
  10. BOARD REFLECTIONS
A. Directors reflections on this evening's meeting.
Student Representative Nora Ramstad recognized the "bones" of the district and expressed her gratitude for them. She is excited about all of the end of year events and is looking forward to knighting ceremony.
Student Representative Dillon Lovestedt commented that it was cool to see retirees and fun to celebrate them
Director Hurley gave a shout out to all the retires and expressed that loosing Lynn Johnson her is a huge loss. He shared that her and her team really stepped up during COVID and that she has always found a way to feed all the schools. He also shared that Lance has done such an amazing job keeping our facilities looking amazing.
Director Bolton congratulated all of the retirees and commented that you can tell the love they have for the district. She expressed her disappointment that the WIAA did not approve women’s Flag Football. She also shared that she is looking forward to the  graduation ceremonies.
Director Dubos said that is was great to see friends and families support retirees and hear the longevity of years of service. She thanked Cathie Seevers for her service to WASBO and welcomed new Finance Director. She also thanked Dr. Crawford for participating in Realtors Association panel and providing them information about our district.
Director Perkins thanked retirees and commented that the years spent represent the dedication to the district. She commented that our maintenance workers are unsung heroes and thanked Lance for keeping our schools in such good repair.
Dr. Crawford thanked Karen creating flyer that he shared during the Kitsap Realtors event. He shared that none of us would be here if it weren’t for school staff and the power of that is incredible
  11. ADJOURNMENT
A. Adjournment - estimated time 7:00 p.m.
At 7:02 p.m., Director Perkins made a motion to adjourn.  The motion carried unanimously and the meeting was adjourned at 7:02 p.m.
    Minutes to be approved at the upcoming Board meeting of June 6, 2024.
    ___________________________________      ________________________________________
Alyson Rotter, Board President                          James Crawford, Ed.D., Secretary to the Board
MS
 