BREMERTON SCHOOL DISTRICT 100-C
Regular Board Meeting - 4:30 p.m.
Thursday, September 19, 2024
  Generated by Marlaina D Simmons on Monday, September 23, 2024
1. CALL TO ORDER 
The meeting of the Bremerton School District Board of Directors was called to order by President Rotter at 4:30 p.m. The meeting was held in the Boardroom located at Bremerton School District at 134 Marion Ave., Bremerton, WA 98312. 
  Members Present:                                      
Ms. Alyson L Rotter, President                       
Ms. Jonee Dubos
Ms. Carolynn M Perkins
Mr. John P Hurley, Vice President
  Members Absent:
Dr. Karen Bolton
  Administrators Present:
Ms. Donna Dearin-Colosky
Dr. Garth Steedman, Acting Superintendent
Ms. Teneka Morley-Short, Director of Standards Based Curriculum and Instruction
Ms. Patty Glaser, Supervisor, School Safety & Security
Ms. Iva Scott, Assistant Superintendent
Ms. Karen Bevers, Director of Communications
Ms. Carol Bailie, Human Resources Supervisor
Mr. Nikhil Gautam, Director of Technology
Ms. Kelsey McCrery, Director of Special Education & Early Learning
Dr. Jennifer Hernandez, Assistant Director of Equity and Community Engagement
  2. EXECUTIVE SESSION
A. Executive Session pursuant to RCW 42.30.140(4) to discuss collective bargaining matters.
At 4:31 p.m., the board recessed into an Executive Session in the North End Conference Room. President Rotter noted that the session would last approximately 30 minutes and that no action would be taken. The administrators present in the Executive session included Dr. Garth Steedman and Interim Superintendent Donna Colosky. The board reconvened the meeting at 5:02 p.m.
  3. MEETING OPENING
A. Land Acknowledgement
Director Hurley read the Land Acknowledgement and explained the importance of the public acknowledgement.
B. Pledge of Allegiance
Director Dubos led the Pledge of Allegiance.
C. Approval of Agenda
Interim Superintendent Colosky noted the addition of vouchers within the last 24 hours and that the student representative’s Oath of Office was removed due to her not be able to attend the meeting. Director Dubos made a motion to approve the agenda as revised. The motion carried unanimously.
  4. CONSENT AGENDA
A. Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of September 5, 2024
President Rotter presented the Consent Agenda for questions or comments. The Consent Agenda included: A. Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of September 5, 2024, B. Minutes of the Special Board Meeting/Study Session of September 6, 2024, C. Payroll for Issue Date September 16, 2024, D. Human Resources Report 2024/2025 – 2, E. Vouchers - August 2024, F. Acceptance of Donations, G. Resolution 2024/2025-07; Purchase Order Signature Authority, H. State Transitional Bilingual Instructional Program Grant Application. I. 2024-25 Minimum Basic Education Compliance. Director Perkins made a motion to approve the agenda as presented. The motion carried unanimously.
  5. REPORTS
A. Student Representative Report
Student Representative to the board Nora Ramstad presented an update on Bremerton High School sports and activities.
  B. Board Reports
Director Hurley shared that Keith Bevers (8th grade at Mountain View Middle School) set a new shotput record of 45 ft 4 inches. 2nd place record for discus.

Director Dubos shared that the Bond Committee met all day Monday and Tuesday for interviews to hire a builder and architect. Each interview was 3 hours. They assessed risk and opportunities and learned a lot about the properties.

Director Perkins shared that she met with Interim Superintendent Donna Colosky yesterday and the new Director of Special Education & Early Learning Kelsey McCreary.

President Rotter shared that she attended the first football game and it was nice to see the support. The AVID kickoff happened with fellow mentors and she said it was inspiring to hear the reason why they feel called to be a mentor. She is starting with a new freshman class this year. She has also been working on the WSSDA board of distinction application. This year they could speak to the last five years instead of just one. She commented that it is nice to see the alignment in the work coming together. The board retreat is coming up on September 28 where they will work on board and Superintendent goals. She also shared that she had a meeting this this morning with all career and college counselors for districts. Someone who oversees the shipyard work study program shared that he has been blown away in recent years how challenging the work place is with cell phones. Every district in our region has gone to some sort of cell phone ban and she is interested how long it will take to see a change in our youth.

Student Representative Nora Ramstad noted that the first couple of weeks of the cell phone policy were trial weeks where kids get a reminder, but Monday it goes into full affect.
  C. Superintendent's Report
Interim Director Donna Colosky met with Mayor Wheeler and President Rotter to reestablish relationships. Building those relationships is important particularly when building starts because that impacts an entire community. She has also been working on planning for the retreat. She visited the Mountain View Middle School sports complex with Dr. Leavell and spent some time inside the school. She noted that it felt like a positive environment. Next week she is presenting a state of the schools at the Chamber with Dr. Steedman and Karen Bevers.
  D. Summer Learning and Professional Development
Assistant Superintendent Iva Scott and Teneka Morely-Short Director of Standards Based Curriculum and Instruction provided a report on Summer Learning and Professional Development.
This year, all staff learning was grounded in one of the 4 Strategic Plan goals. There were three buckets for student summer engagement- Bridges (transitional activities), Future Focused and Career Readiness, and Academic Enrichment. There were 352 students that participated in Summer Learning

We have 26 new teachers this year, 16 of them are new to the new to the profession. All of them went through the New Teacher Academy prior to beginning the school year.
  Summer Institute had 320 people in attendance on the 20th and 266 people on the 21st and 22nd.
School based PD in each bldg. One day is funding by the state. This year it was SEL day.

Karen Bevers, Director of Communications, shared about the Mind over Mobile campaign that launched this school year. Leadership and principals came to agreement on language and devices to include. Posters and flyers have been distributed to all secondary schools.

Director Hurley asked how the campaign has it worked at West Sound Tech since they are not all Bremerton students. Karen commented that it has gone well because it is a building expectation.

Director Dubos asked what was the Web program for middle school? It stands for where everyone belongs” and is like link crew for middle school. There are around 40 web leaders and most 6th graders participate
  E. Technology Services and Cyber Security Update
Interim Superintendent Colosky shared that the plan was ready to be presented about a year ago so has since been updated and that it is incredibly important that we stay on top of this.

Director of Technology Nikil Gautam presented his plan for a Cyber Security update for the district. The first rec step is to create an IT security framework to provide a structured approach.
Next is a Cyber Hygiene Improvement plan where he will implement Multi Factor Authentication. He recommends a phishing resistant MFA. There will also be provided training for all employees to reduce risk and prevent error.

Director Hurley asked if there was a Fiscal impact to the district. Mr. Gautam responded that if people will use their phone for MFA that will reduce costs so we do not have to buy hardware.
Interim Superintendent Colosky shared that Mr. Gautam previously identified some costs savings by getting rid of unused technology.

Students won’t need to use cell phone, MFA is completed using pictures on their chrome books.

Director Hurley asked if our policies need to be updated.

Interim Superintendent Colosky shared that we are currently working on updates to our Staff Informed Consent Form for device use. It will be on the agenda for approval at the next board meeting.
  6. PUBLIC INPUT
A. Request to Address the Board
Brian Burdick- shared his concern around the field rental price increase and how it will affected local clubs.
  7. DISCUSSION/ACTION ITEMS
A. Policy 3241- Student Discipline
Assistant Superintendent  Iva Scott presented Policy 3241 for a first read. WSSDA's policy update aligns with OSPI's recently released emergency rules. OSPI’s emergency rules aim to provide school districts with more flexibility in managing student behavior. Additional rulemaking is expected to bring further clarity. WSSDA’s policy updates focus on three key changes introduced by these emergency rules
  OSPI replaced "discipline" with “discretionary discipline” and “nondiscretionary discipline” from RCW 28A.600.015. "Discretionary discipline" references "disciplinary action," with examples like reprimands or parent notifications (from RCW 28A.600.460(1)).
OSPI removed "other forms of discipline" as a defined term and the requirement to attempt it before classroom exclusions and emergency removals, though it’s still used for suspensions and expulsions. WSSDA updated its procedures, removing the term but defining it for suspensions/expulsions. Districts can adapt or omit this definition.
OSPI redefined "classroom exclusion," changing rules on its duration and reporting discretion. It eliminated the requirement that other forms of discipline be attempted before excluding a student from the classroom. 

Director Hurley asked if this a required policy and Assistant Superintendent Scott confirmed that it is.
  President Rotter acknowledged the frustration around discipline policies and that there is a lot of changes without a lot of time. She is concerned about the constant moving target even with definitions and the lack of understanding and the impact on academics.
  Director Perkins made a motion to approve Policy 3241- Student Discipline as presented. Student Representative Nora Ramstad was asked her advisory vote and she voted for approval. The motion carried unanimously.
  B. Performance Fact Agreement
Interim Superintendent Colosky presented an the agreement with Performance Fact for Strategic Plan implementation support. She shared that she and Assistant Superintendent Scott will be meeting with Performance Fact tomorrow and that she has been thinking about how it integrates with the ongoing work with the recipe.

Director Perkins shared that she agrees that we need to step back and think about melding the Strategic Plan with the recipe. In order to do this with fidelity, she doesn’t think it’s time to go full steam ahead, She also feels that it is not cost affective at this time.

Director Hurley stated that Performance Fact has already done some of the work so he assumes we would be “on the hook” for the first payment. He also asked if we decided move forward, would we be in breach of contract.

President Rotter raised the same question and shared she didn’t see a clause of cancellation because it is standard practice for signatures to happen prior to coming to the board.

Interim Superintendent Colosky said that can get that questioned answered.

President Rotter commented that she is concerned with the cost with our current budget.
  Director Hurley made a motion to table a decision on the agreement until the next board meeting. President Rotter quarried Student Representative Nora Ramstad for her vote and she voted for approval. The motion carried unanimously.
  C. 2024- 27 Bremerton Education Association Cooperative Working Agreement
Assistant Superintendent Steedman presented the 2024- 27 Bremerton Education Association Cooperative Working Agreement for approval.  The bargaining group met with BEA reps starting in June and finished up negotiations in August. A few of the changed to the agreement includes:
  15 hours of PD allowed throughout the year
Additional Wednesdays that the district can provide PD
A couple half days for PD
Lowered class size by one in Kindergarten and 1st
Stipends to help hire and retain dual language and SPED teachers
Open house changed to two or more
Compensation package 1% plus IPD then IPD or 3.5%, and then IPD or 3.0%, whatever is higher in years two and three, respectively. 
  Director Dubos made a motion to approve the 2024- 27 Bremerton Education Association Cooperative Working Agreement as presented. President Rotter quarried Student Representative Nora Ramstad for her vote and she voted for approval. The motion carried unanimously.
    8. WRITTEN REPORTS
A. 4260P- Use of School Facilities
Director Hurley shared concerns about the fee increase and that it will potentially have ramifications on our families since we are in a lower income district. Some things that might help mitigate costs are a season rate and that adult or for-profit use should have a higher rate.
  Directors Dubos and Perkins agreed that there should be different costs for club sports than adult and for-profit.

President Rotter also agreed and shared that although this is not in the board's purview, but the handbook suggests that it is. She doesn't want cost to be a barrier to the community and said that she is happy to continue conversations.
  B. 2145P- Suicide Prevention
The Suicidal Ideation Flowchart will replace the current chart included as an attachment in 2145P- Suicide Prevention. 
  President Rotter asked what was updated in flow chat.

Patty Glaser shared that it was cleaned it up to add clarity and reflected more access to resources.

Director Hurley expressed concern with the flowchart and share that he feels if there is any risk/possibility that we do not leave the child alone.

Patty Glaser commented that there isn’t any situation that she is aware of the child is left alone.

President Rotter clarified that the chart is simplified and there is required training that goes along with it.
  9. CALENDAR OF EVENTS
A. Important Dates to Remember
Upcoming events were noted including the Mountain View Middle School Sports Complex grand opening on October 2nd at 5:00 pm.
  10. BOARD REFLECTIONS
A. Directors' reflections on this evening's meeting
Director Perkins- commented on the COVID impacts on students and that it is a concern. She gave kudos to the district for providing Summer Knight Academy and for giving them that transition opportunity. She appreciated the cyber security presentation and said that it is very important. She also shared that her input on the new fee structure for facilities rentals is that we find a way to mitigate the costs because we built those fields for our kids.

Director Dubos thanked President Rotter for putting together the application for the board of distinction. She commented that we took our time with Mind over Mobile and it looks like its going to be an amazing program that everyone can implement and support. She shared Peewee programs set budget early summer so she wondered if there is something we can do so we don't impact their budget.

Director Hurley shared that he received a notice that next Wednesday the Mountain View track team will be hosting their meet at the new field. He also thanked President Rotter for completing the Board of Distinction application. He shared that his middle schoolers weren't happy about Mind over Mobile but it has drastically decreased their phone time and its already having an academic impact. He said how amazing it is that we served 18,496 meals this summer and that he always brags that Bremerton feeds every kid. He thanked district staff and the Child Nutrition Services Team.
  President Rotter commented that there have been discussions around field sponsorships in the past and it might be time to explore it more intentionally.
  11. ADJOURNMENT
A. Adjournment - estimated time 6:00 p.m.
At 7:04 p.m. Director Perkins made a motion to adjourn the meeting. The motion carried unanimously.
        ___________________________________      ________________________________________
Alyson Rotter, Board President                          Donna Dearin-Colosky, Secretary to the Board
MS
   