BREMERTON SCHOOL DISTRICT 100-C
Regular Board Meeting, 5:00 p.m.
 Thursday, May 2, 2024
  Generated by Marlaina D Simmons on Monday, May 6, 2024
  1. MEETING OPENING 
The meeting of the Bremerton School District Board of Directors was called to order by President Rotter at 5:01 p.m. The meeting was held in the Boardroom located at Bremerton School District at 134 Marion Ave., Bremerton, WA 98312. 
Members Present:                                      
Ms. Alyson L Rotter, President                     
Mr. John P Hurley, Vice President
Dr. Karen J Bolton
Ms. Carolynn M Perkins
Ms. Jonee M Dubos
Ms. Nora Ramstad, Student Representative to the Board
Mr. Dillon Lovestedt, Student Representative to the Board
    Administrators Present:
Dr. James Crawford, Superintendent
Ms. Iva Scott, Assistant Superintendent
Dr. Garth Steedman, Assistant Superintendent
Ms. Teneka Morley-Short, Principal, West Hills STEM Academy 
Ms. Carol Bailie, Supervisor, Human Resources
Ms. Patty Glaser, Supervisor, School Safety & Security
Ms. Cathie Seevers, Director of Finance
Ms. Kelsey McCreary, Assistant Director of Special Education & Early Learning
Ms. Julie Fairall, Assistant Director of State and Federal Programs
Ms. Karen Bevers, Director of Communication and Community Engagement
B. Land Acknowledgement
Director Hurley read the Land Acknowledgement and explained the importance of the public acknowledgement.
  C. Pledge of Allegiance
Student Representative Dillon Lovestedt led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Action: D. Approval of Agenda
Superintendent Crawford stated that there were changes to the HR Report. Director Perkins moved to approve the Agenda as presented.  The motion carried unanimously.
2. BOARD RECOGNITION
A. Teacher Appreciation Week is May 6-10, 2024
President Rotter acknowledged Teacher Appreciation week and expressed her gratitude to the teachers within our district. She noted that a resolution will be up for approval later in the agenda.
  B. May is Asian American, Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander Heritage Month
President Rotter recognized and honored the rich diversity of our community and celebrated the contributions and achievements of Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders in Bremerton and Kitsap County. She noted that a resolution will be up for approval later in the agenda
  3. CONSENT AGENDA
President Rotter presented the Consent Agenda for questions or comments.  There were none.  The Consent Agenda included:
A. Minutes of the Regular Board meeting of April 11, 2024, B. Minutes of the Special Board meeting of April 15, 2024, C. Minutes of the Special Board meeting of April 23, 2024, D. Payroll for Issue Date April 30, 2024, E. Out of State/Overnight Student Travel,
F. Acceptance of Donations, G. Andersen Construction Company of Washington, LLC Design-Build contract - Change Order #3, H. Payroll for Issue Date January 16, 2024, I. HR Report-13
I move to approve Resolution 2023/2024-20 delegating authority to the W.I.A.A. for the 2024/25 school year. Director Hurley moved to approve the Consent Agenda as presented.  The motion carried unanimously.
  4. REPORTS
A. Student Representative's Report
Student Representatives to the Board Nora Ramstad and Dillon Lovestedt presented a report to the Board covering recent and upcoming Bremerton High School athletic and school events. A few highlights from their presentation include:
Track had 2 Athletes of the week this week- Isiah Addison and Ciara Wilson
Softball is having a great season with a great record
Baseball is currently wrapping up their season
All sports have been celebrating their having senior nights
Sports Medicine class participated in a Competition where Dillon Lovestedt received a score of 203 out of 300
Senior Prom is coming up next Saturday at the Marvin Williams Center
Salutatorians were chosen- Emily Cortes Gonzales and Claire Cortez- as well as the Valedictorian- Helene Rode
There are 36 days to graduation!
  B. Board Reports
Director Perkins mentioned the Board Special Session where they reviewed and provided feedback on the first draft of the Strategic Plan
Director Bolton went to Spokane to represent district 4. There were 20 representatives from across the state in attendance. They reviewed legislative priority submissions from school districts to pass or not pass. Only 4 didn’t pass and they will go back to school board for revisions. Our district submitted a request for Mental Health supports and counseling access and it was passed.
Director Hurley shared that last week he attended a meeting with Bremerton Housing Authority about a project/ new property geared towards young adults coming out of foster care. They will be partnering with Coffee Oasis.
Director Rotter shared her hopes that in the future there will be a WSSDA priority to make CTE funding go down to 6th grade. She attended WASA awards ceremony and our Yes Citizens Committee received an award for their work on the Bond/Levy. She found it interesting to hear from other districts across the peninsula and their partnerships.
  C. Superintendent's Report
First Friday art walk is tomorrow and our student’s art will be on display
Bus inspections received highest rating
Bremerton Foodline breakfast raised over $700,000.
We will be moving forward with adding lacrosse marking on MVMS field
Dr. Crawford toured PSNS with Representative Nance last week. He shared that  3-5000 families will be coming in to Kitsap from the Regan so the district talking about planning for that.
The district interviewed project managers this week for the Bond projects.
A survey for the communication audit went out this week
Nora and Dillon were both awarded got scholarships for being Armed Forces Day Ambassadors
  D. West Sound Technical Skills Center Update
Anderson Construction, Bassetti Architects and Barker Creek will be provided an update on the West Sound Technical Skills Center project.
Phase one for the new structure is 52 million dollars.
Permits have been submitted to the City of Bremerton.
They have started working on utilities and are waiting on building permits.
Phase 2 will be approximately 44.5 million in 2025 biennium.
Project Goals- design spaces that support 21st century learning, community and identity, safety.
The space is 48,000 square feet, 2 story.
Phase 1 is new building and phase 2 is fixing existing building.
In phase 2 wanted they want to bring daylight in and make it cohesive with new building. A higher roof will bring daylight in from above. Trying to provide flexibility in space for the future.
  5. DISCUSSION/ACTION ITEMS
Action: A. Resolution 2023/2024-20; WIAA Enrollment
Annually the school district is requested to reinstate membership and to authorize control, supervision and regulation of interschool activities to the Washington Interscholastic Activities Association (WIAA) for the Bremerton High School and Mountain View Middle School Athletics Program.  The District has been a participating member of the WIAA for many years.  Only sanctioned WIAA sports are offered in our secondary schools.  This annual resolution confirms our participation and support for the rules and regulations of the WIAA.
Director Hurley move to approve Resolution 2023/2024-20 as presented. President Rotter queried the student representatives for their advisory votes.  Both Nora and Dillon voted aye.  There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  
  Action: B. Appointment of School Board WIAA Representative
President Rotter appointed Director Hurley to serve as the School Board WIAA Representative. Director Hurley accepted to continue in the position.
  Action: C. Resolution 2023/2024-19; Teacher Appreciation Week
Director Bolton moved to approve Resolution 2023/2024-19 proclaiming May 6-10 Teacher Appreciation Week in the Bremerton School District, as presented. President Rotter queried the student representatives for their advisory votes.  Both Nora and Dillon voted aye.  There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  
  Action: D. Approval of 2024-2025 Board Meeting Calendar
Director Dubos moved to approve the 2024-2025 Board Meeting Calendar, as presented. President Rotter queried the student representatives for their advisory votes.  Both Nora and Dillon voted aye.  no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  
  Action: E. Policy 2004- Accountability Goals (1st read)
Assistant Superintendent Iva Scott presented revised Policy 2004. This policy is in accordance with RCW 28A.655.100 and WAC 180-105-020, which require districts to report yearly improvement goals at both district and school levels. Notably, the policy uniformly mentions "federal" requirements instead of state ones. It has been reclassified from essential to encouraged, reflecting its non-mandatory status, and this adjustment aligns with legal mandates. Director Bolton moved to approve Policy 2004 as, as presented. President Rotter queried the student representatives for their advisory votes.  Both Nora and Dillon voted aye.  There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  

Action: F. Retirement of Policy 2010- Learning Improvement Teams
Assistant Superintendent Iva Scott presented Policy 2010 for retirement. The language in the policy is no longer relevant. The policy was retired by WSSDA in 2007. Director Perkins moved to approve the retirement of Policy 2010. President Rotter queried the student representatives for their advisory votes.  Both Nora and Dillon voted aye.  There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  
  Action: G. Policy 2411- Certificate of Educational Competency (1st read)
Assistant Superintendent Iva Scott presented revised Policy 2411. In response to HB 1686 (2013), WSSDA made revisions to Policy 2411, incorporating updates to reflect current regulations and aligning eligibility criteria with WAC 131-48-100, which outlines substantial reasons for early high school departure. Additionally, the revisions clarify the application and decision-making processes involved. A notable change introduced by these updates is the renaming of the certificate from Certificate of Educational Competency to High School Equivalency Certificate.
Director Hurley move to approve Policy 2411 as presented. President Rotter queried the student representatives for their advisory votes.  Both Nora and Dillon voted aye.  There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  
    Action: H. Policy 2340- Religious Related Activities and Practices (1st read)
Assistant Superintendent Iva Scott presented revised Policy 2340. This policy, updated by WSSDA in the 2011/12 school year, provides clear guidance for teaching about religion in public education. It emphasizes factual and objective instruction within cultural and historical contexts to meet secular educational objectives. The updated policy ensures that religious instruction is conducted in an objective, neutral, non-devotional manner. Furthermore, it clarifies that restrictions do not apply to presentations of choral or musical performances during programs or assemblies. Minor changes, such as replacing "shall" with "will" and including "guardians" when referring to parents, were also recommended by BSD.
Director Bolton moved to approve Policy 2340 as, as presented. President Rotter queried the student representatives for their advisory votes.  Both Nora and Dillon voted aye.  There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  
  6. WRITTEN REPORTS
Noted: A. Enrollment Report. There were no comments questions on the report.
  7. CALENDAR OF EVENTS
A. Important Dates to Remember
Upcoming events were noted.
  8. PUBLIC INPUT
A. Request to Address the Board
No public input was given.
  9. BOARD REFLECTIONS
A. Directors reflections on this evening's meeting.
Director Hurley gave a shout out to all the student athletes and shared that Bremerton being recognized for athletics. He enjoyed seeing WST update and said that it is getting him excited about new Elementary schools. He is also excited to be selecting new a student representative for the board at the end of month.
Director Bolton said that we are the "it" town and that she is excited about the three new carrier coming in and the new families. She gave a shout out to the student board reps and said she has been very impressed by them. She also gave a shout out to the legislative reps from other districts and commented that finding common ground from different backgrounds is beautiful.
Director Perkins said that the sports presentation was amazing. Our athletes have positive attitude AND high academic achievement which is impressive. She shared that she has been waiting for the money for the renovation of WST. Its going to be a positive exciting space. She loves the innovative wide-open spaces and flexibility.
Student Representative Nora Ramstad said that she is ecstatic about everything going on within the district. She is grateful for our partnership with PSNS.
Student Representative Dillon Lovestedt commented that it is cool to see sports updates and seeing athletes step up and change the culture. It’s also cool to see investments in our community with the WST renovations and upcoming elementary schools!
Superintendent Crawford also shared his excitement for all the new schools!
President Rotter said that she is thankful that we have invested in communications to tell our own story. Despite the amazing accomplishments, it doesn't always get the attention it deserves. She gave kudos to Karen Bevers for leading that effort.
  10. ADJOURNMENT
A. Adjournment - estimated time 7:00 p.m.
At 6:38 p.m., Director Perkins made a motion to adjourn.  The motion carried unanimously and the meeting was adjourned at 6:38 p.m.
    Minutes to be approved at the upcoming Board meeting of May 16, 2024.
    ___________________________________      ________________________________________
Alyson Rotter, Board President                          James Crawford, Ed.D., Secretary to the Board
MS
   