BREMERTON SCHOOL DISTRICT 100-C
Regular Board Meeting 5:00 p.m.
Thursday, August 1, 2024
  Generated by Marlaina D Simmons on Friday, August 2, 2024
  MEETING OPENING 
The meeting of the Bremerton School District Board of Directors was called to order by President Rotter at 5:00 p.m. The meeting was held in the Boardroom located at Bremerton School District at 134 Marion Ave., Bremerton, WA 98312. 
  Members Present:                                       Members Absent:
Ms. Alyson L Rotter, President                        Mr. John P Hurley, Vice President
Ms. Karen Bolton
Ms. Jonee Dubos
Ms. Carolynn M Perkins
  Administrators Present:
Dr. Garth Steedman, Acting Superintendent
Ms. Teneka Morley-Short, Principal, West Hills STEM Academy 
Ms. Patty Glaser, Supervisor, School Safety & Security
Ms. Brittane DeBard, Executive Director of Learning and Leadership Development
Ms. Iva Scott, Assistant Superintendent
Ms. Karen Bevers, Director of Communications
  B. Land Acknowledgement
Director Bolton read the Land Acknowledgement and explained the importance of the public acknowledgement.
  C. Pledge of Allegiance
Director Perkins led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Action: D. Approval of Agenda
Director Perkins moved to approve the Agenda as presented.  The motion carried unanimously.
  2. CONSENT AGENDA
President Rotter presented the Consent Agenda for questions or comments.  The Consent Agenda included: A. Minutes of the Special Board Meeting of July 11, 2024, B. Minutes of the Special Board Meeting/Executive Session July 23, 2024, C. Payroll for issue date July 31, 2024, D. HR Report August 1-18, E. Cabling & Technology Services Proposal for the Mountain View Middle School Camera Upgrade Project, F. Personal Service Contracts for Special Services, G. Personal Service Contracts for Special Services, H. Neeley Construction Change Order 5, I. Agreement for Consulting Services between the District and TCF Architecture, J. Resolution 2023/2024-26; Small Public Works Consultant and Vendor Rosters, K. Professional Services Contract, L. 2024-25 Academic Calendar.
    Director Dubos moved to approve the Consent Agenda as presented.  The motion carried unanimously. After the consent was approved a Lynn Horton (in the audience) had questions about the some of the contracts and agreements that had been signed prior to the meeting.
  3. REPORTS
A. Board Reports
Director Perkins shared that the canoe journey is currently occurring and that the Suquamish Tribe is participating. During the journey, the participants camp on Tribal lands going from one Tribe to another. She said that it is very inspiration to see.

Director Bolton shared that on September 20th and 21st she will be voting for next year’s priorities with WSSDA. She also shared that the Board of Distinction application are open and that we have previously received the award and that we should apply.
  B. 2023/2024 General Fund Status
Dr. Garth Steedman presented the General Fund Status through June 30th. He shared the balance of the 5 accounts and that we have spent about 83% of our budget which is on track for the total budget. We have safety net funds coming, but we are still a bit more in the red than anticipated. The big pull on our budget is additional contracted services safety net funding is directly tied to those services and we can be reimbursed for anything over about $35,000 spent for a given student. We anticipate revenues from safety net to be about four time higher than they were last year We have had an increase in IEPS in the district and the significant needs of students.

C. Preliminary Draft Budget Review for Fiscal Year 2024-25
Projected enrollment will be up slightly for next year.
Revenue comes in from the levy, State, Federal (CNS etc.), and other sources.
MSOC disclosure is required by law. Our MSOC expenses were higher than what we received money for. Our estimated ending balance $11,512,260. We have a projected loss of 2.6 million for 24-25 and have been preparing for this to come. Part is due to loss of ESSR funds. We are looking at ways to reduced costs and we will still be in compliance with school board policy.

Director Bolton shared that she has seen one district have $30 million loss with loss of ESSR funds. She asked Dr. Steedman what his colleagues saying across the state? Dr. Steedman shared that it is a challenge throughout the nation. In Washington, everyone is feeling the loss. Its 3% of our budget.

President Rotter asked what percentage is the state not meeting with MSOC? About 2.5%. The increase we received was only about $100,000.
She also commented that she is pleased to see estimate for dropout/reengagement enrollment and that benefits and payroll taxes seems to go down. Dr.  Steedman shared that going to SEBB has helped.
D. Bond Update
David McBride from OAC provided an update on the Bond project. OAC has been focusing on laying the groundwork for the project and they are prioritizing the Elementary schools as they are the first projects. The projects will have visible activity very soon. They are finalizing details for the advisory committee and will have details next week and begin inviting people to participate.
  They are also working on forming the Project Review Committee. They applied for Progressive Design Build that will allow us to work collaboratively with partners and was approved last week. There are currently approximately ten confirmed teams pursuing the work. Interviews will occur in September and they will propose a builder to the board on October 3rd. Once design build team is in place, they will work to finalize HVAC details.

Director Bolton asked if a board member could be on one of the committees? Mr. McBride confirmed yes.
She also mentioned that the City of Bremerton is currently doing the Safe Schools project and asked how will it impact them putting in new sidewalks. Mr. McBride shared that OAC met with the City and their schedules will align.
She shared her concern about wetlands around Armin Jahr and the impact. Mr. McBride shared that OAC has taken steps to mitigate risks.

President Rotter asked how much information from The Long-Range Facility Plan will go into this? Mr. McBride share that they will educate group on what has been done to date.
  4. DISCUSSION/ACTION ITEMS
A. New Policy 6217; Electronic Funds Transfer (1st reading)
Dr. Garth Steedman presented new Policy 6217, Electronic Fund Transfers, to the Board for first read. WSSDA developed this model policy (July 2023) to authorize a district’s use of electronic methods of payment, including electronic funds transfers (EFT). The State Auditor’s Office requires adopting an authorizing policy before implementing electronic payments.   This recommended Policy is taken from WSSDA's Model Policy, without change. Director Bolton made a motion to approve Policy 6217 as presented for first read. There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.
  B. New Policy 6225; Use of Electronic Signature (1st reading)
Dr. Garth Steedman presented new Policy 6225, Use of Electronic Signature, to the Board for approval. The District began using electronic signatures during the pandemic/shut-down.  It is required that a Policy be in place allowing the use of electronic signatures.  This recommended Policy is taken from WSSDA's Model Policy.  

Greg Raymond (in the audience) commented that it is not only great for saving paper, but it is also more efficient. Director Dubos made a motion to approve Policy 6225 as presented for first read. The motion carried unanimously.
    C. Revised Policy 1400- Meeting Conduct, Order of Business and Quorum
Dr. Garth Steedman presented revised policy 1400- Meeting Conduct, Order of Business and Quorum for a first read. The Policy was changed to include the requirement that all regular and special meetings of the board at which a final action is taken or formal public testimony is accepted, except executive sessions or emergency meetings, will be audio recorded.  The law became effective June 30th.

Lynn Horton (in the audience) stated that it would be beneficial to modify the policy so that public comment is taken before all voting. Including the consent agenda.

President Rotter said that the board will take that into consideration.

Betty Hyde (in the audience) commented that she was confused by the following language:
In addition to the public comment period during the meeting, the Board may identify the agenda items that require or would benefit from opportunity for public comment and provide those opportunities as part of the meeting agenda before taking final action”.
She also supports more opportunity for public comment.
  Director Perkins made a motion to approve policy 1400 as presented for first read. The motion carried unanimously.
  5. WRITTEN REPORTS
Noted: A. 2023-2024 Injury Reports
  6. CALENDAR
A. Calendar of Events
Upcoming events were noted.
  7. PUBLIC INPUT
A. Request to Address the Board
Ivaly Alexander- Spoke on behalf of Dr. Crawford and in support of his leadership. She would like transparency.

Betty Hyde- Spoke on behalf of Dr. Crawford and in support of his leadership. She also commented about student achievement.

Mary Lou Long- Spoke on behalf of Dr. Crawford and in support of his leadership. She said there is a lack of transparency from the district.
  8. BOARD REFLECTIONS
A. Director's Reflections on this evening's meeting
  Director Dubos thanked everyone for their presentations and wondered how long it would take for the updates of the HVAC system.

Director Perkins shared that she is so happy Director Bolton is a voting member of General Assembly. She commented that a lot of districts have lost money because of MSOC costs and a lot of districts are in trouble across the state due to ESSER funds loss.

Director Bolton used the quote "it’s not personal its business" and said that she takes offense to anyone questioning her oath to office and commitment to the district. She said that the board’s number one priority is the kids and thanked everyone that trusts and believes in them.

President Rotter shared that there is a policy around a Code of Ethics as School Board Directors. It is personal for her because she does what she does on behalf of our community and kids. She reminded everyone that they are volunteers. She will continue to lean on our policies during this time.
  9. ADJOURNMENT
A. Adjournment - Estimated End Time: 6:15 p.m.
At 6:07 p.m., Director Perkins made a motion to adjourn.  The motion carried unanimously and the meeting was adjourned at 6:07 p.m.
  I move to adjourn this meeting.
      ___________________________________      ________________________________________
Alyson Rotter, Board President                          Dr. Garth Steedman, Secretary to the Board
MS
     