BREMERTON SCHOOL DISTRICT 100-C
Special Board Meeting - Study Session (9:00 am)
(Saturday, March 16, 2024)
  Generated by Marlaina D Simmons on Monday, March 18, 2024
  Members Present:                                       Members Absent:
Ms. Alyson L Rotter, President                     Dr. Karen Bolton
Mr. John P Hurley, Vice President
Ms. Jonee Dubos
Ms. Carolynn M Perkins
  Administrators Present:
Dr. James Crawford, Superintendent
Ms. Iva Scott, Assistant Superintendent
Ms. Melissa Rohr, Director of CTE and AVID
Ms. Cynthia Cantwell, Director of Academics, SE, and Cognitive Learning
Ms. Kelsey McCreary, Assistant Director of Special Education and Early Learning
  1. MEETING OPENING 
The special meeting of the Bremerton School District Board of Directors was called to order by President Rotter at 9:11 a.m. The meeting was held in the Curriculum Library located at Bremerton School District at 134 Marion Ave., Bremerton, WA 98312. 
  2. STUDY SESSION
Review of District's 2000s Policies
Policy 2170- Presented by Melissa Rohr
Policy was last revised in 1989.
Updated from Vocational Education to CTE.
OSPI use to require a 5-year plan now it’s a 4-year plan.
Policy ensures that programs reflect what is going on in our current labor market and that it is rigorous education.
Questions/Comments:
Dr. Crawford- Is there anything in the policy that is different than what we are currently doing? Melissa- No.
President Rotter- What is the plan referenced in paragraph 3? Melissa- The plan is what I submit every August/September.
President Rotter - Is anything in here unique to us not just WSSDA recommendations? Melissa- No.
President Rotter- Do you feel that there is still anything lacking? Melissa- no, this is pretty specific.
    Policy 2413- Presented by Melissa Rohr
This policy use to only be about the equivalency credits for CTE, now it’s about all credits available. This is almost completely new and none of the original policy stands.
Policy now includes experiential educational opportunities. Students would have to create a proposal to get experiential credits.
Current law states that all statewide equivalency courses have to be recognized.
Mastery and competency-based credits- if students feel that they have the skills and knowledge, the policy it lays out how they would go about not taking the course.
Elective credit for paid work experience- up to 2 credits for students 16 or older, any work they do they can earn credits. Students would need to submit who the employer is and narrative. The work experience has to meet financial education experience.
Questions/Comments:
Director Dubos- Can you give an example of how they can meet financial education experience? Melissa- Counting money, budgeting, how to read a paycheck.
President Rotter - Is this Policy just what WSSDA recommends? Melissa Rohr- Our policy includes what credits we will offer at Bremerton School District.
President Rotter-Page 3 last bullet needs to come down.
President Rotter-Page 2 the paragraph that states “The district team shall include...” is missing “Teaching and learning team” at the end.
President Rotter-Section 3- isn’t there another policy on the books around this? Is it cross referenced in here? Do they align? Iva Scott- Yes there is, and they align. We can make sure it is referenced.
President Rotter- Do we anticipate a mass influx of utilization causing more work for the district and giving the students enough credits to graduate early? Melissa Rohr- No, we are trying to free up time in their schedules so they can do things like AVID and internships.
President Rotter- Page 2- 3 is new language- was this not happening before? Melissa Rohr-we are changing the courses so that it meets the content area they are going for.
Director Hurley- How much is the exam for competency? Melissa Rohr- If locally created, its free. We believe our students shouldn't have to pay but there may be a test we aren't aware of that could incur a cost.
Computer Science will be mandated next session as a graduation requirement, so we need to prepare for what that looks like in the high school (staffing needs etc).
  Policy 2195- Presented by Cynthia Cantwell-
The district is retiring Policy 2423 and replacing it with Policy 2195.
This policy says that once a student is competent in a course, they will automatically be enrolled in next rigorous course.
Questions/Comments:
President Rotter- Do we have the capacity to do this from a course scheduling perspective? Example- if honors English is the same time as Orchestra, then the student has to choose. We should be careful of binding language if we cannot make this happen.
Counselors should be reviewing the schedules and having a conversation with students if they are not selecting the most rigorous course. Will this cause a capacity issue? That is a lot of case management for counselors.
Metric- number of students taking advanced courses.
    Policy 2163- Presented by Cynthia Cantwell-
This policy was revised to add in parent involvement and our essential standards language. WSSDA does not have a new version yet. It is predicted that there is an update coming so just a few revisions were made until we get the revision from WSSDA.
  Policy 2104- Presented by Kelsey McCreary for Julie Fairall-
The changes that were made to this policy are mostly additions to call out Title 1 and looking at funding and programs from an equity lens. The policy calls out the need for highly capable services and that Title 1 services must be in addition to regular programming.
Questions/Comments:
President Rotter- Does this match WSSDA's language? Kelsey McCreary- I believe so.
  In the third paragraph, board needs to be capitalized. Change ensures to promotes.
  Policy 2108- Presented by Kelsey McCreary for Julie Fairall- -
The Policy was formally “Remediation Programs”.
Supports can now be more inclusive, and students can be served in multiple programs (such as IEP and LAP) and it includes details to use LAP funding.
Director Hurley- should it be PK-12 since we have district funded PK programs. Do we use LAP funds in PK?
Dr. Crawford- What other policies are related to community partnerships. They should be cross referenced.
    Policy 2107- Presented by Kelsey McCreary –
This policy is in regard to a comprehensive early literacy plan.
BSD didn't have a policy around early literacy, so this is a new policy.
The model policy aligns with current practices.
Policy states that we need to monitor and update families on early literacy progress.
Reading interventions must be selected from an approved menu of research-based practice and that we must share those interventions with parents so they can support them at home as well.
Questions/Comments
President Rotter- Is our report card in that format? Can we actually show the progress on the report card. Kelsey McCreary- It can be included in the narrative section but is every teacher using it that way?
  Policy 2421- Presented by Kelsey McCreary for Julie Fairall-  
This policy needed to update to be reflective of our values and beliefs that all of our students should receive instruction at their grade level and receive interventions.
We need a clear process and procedure for the retention of any student to be developed by T&L
Questions/Comments:
2nd paragraph-remove except in these.
Last paragraph needs revisions to make sense.
Director Hurley- Will the procedure lay out individualization of interventions and not just pushing kids through?
Director Dubos- There is an accountability piece for the school board to ensure this doesn't happen.
    Policy 2000- Presented by Iva Scott-
    This Policy was updated in 2018 to align with legislation but we didn't update at that time.
Updates improve clarity across the entire policy. Practice remains the same.
Board decided to hold this until strategic plan is done to align language.
      Policy 2004- Presented by Iva Scott-
Policy was revised to be in alignment with RCW and WACs.
Policy use to reference federal instead of state requirements. Changes were made to reference more state requirements.
Leadership will consider retiring this policy due to it being mostly procedural. The board knows they have to do and this policy is tied with other policies so is not necessary to have.
    Policy 2005- Presented by Iva Scott-
We do not currently have this policy, so it is all new.
Recommending retiring 2010 and replace with 2005.
In the 2nd paragraph, remove whatever we cannot measure.
A-F list needs to align with our practices and should be in procedure not policy.
Pause until after strategic plan is complete.
    Policy 2010- Presented by Iva Scott-
Iva proposed retiring this policy but to do it as same time we bring 2005 to the board.
      Policy 2340-Presented by Iva Scott-
WSSDA hasn't updated this policy in a long time. We were going to update in relation to legislation but with Kennedy case we were advised to hold off.
Minor changes were made to change from shall to will and parents to guardians to be more inclusive.
Discusses what is appropriate for schools to teach about education.
Provides clarity around teaching of religion.
First paragraph change guideline to criteria
    Policy 2411- Presented by Iva Scott-
 Name change for certificate itself. Updates are in alignment with current legislation.
Clarifies application and decision-making process from for leaving High School early.
The policy does not have a procedure to follow.
Bottom of page 2 last paragraph- change to the board instead of board of directors to be consistent with other policies
  3. ADJOURNMENT
  At 11:53 am., Director Hurley adjourned the meeting.
  Minutes to be approved at the upcoming Board meeting of March 21, 2024.
      ___________________________________      ________________________________________
Alyson Rotter, Board President                          James Crawford, Ed.D., Secretary to the Board
  MS