BREMERTON SCHOOL DISTRICT 100-C
Regular Board Meeting - 5:00 pm
February 1, 2024
  Generated by Marlaina D Simmons on Friday, February 2, 2024
  1. MEETING OPENING - A. Call to Order / Establish Quorum
The regular meeting of the Bremerton School District Board of Directors was called to order by President Rotter at 5:00 p.m. The meeting was held in the Board Room located at the District Administration Office at 134 Marion Ave. N., Bremerton, Washington 98312.  This meeting was available to the public via Zoom.
  Members Present:                                      
Ms. Alyson L Rotter, President                     
Mr. John P Hurley, Vice President
Ms. Jonee M Dubos
Ms. Carolynn M Perkins
Dr. Karen J Bolton
Ms. Nora Ramstad, Student Representative to the Board
Mr. Dillon Lovestedt, Student Representative to the Board
    Administrators Present:
Dr. James Crawford, Superintendent
Ms. Iva Scott, Assistant Superintendent
Dr. Garth Steedman, Assistant Superintendent
Mr. Jon Bell, Director, Community Support & Special Education
Ms. Karen Bevers, Director, Communication & Community Engagement
Ms. Cynthia Cantwell, Director, Academic, Social Emotional & Cognitive Learning
Ms. Brittane DeBard, Executive Director, Learning & Leadership Development
Mr. Nikhil Gautam, Director, Technology
Ms. Cathie Seevers, Director, Finance
Ms. Julie Fairall, Assistant Director, State and Federal Programs
Ms. Kelsey McCreary, Assistant Director, Special Education & Early Learning
Ms. Teneka Morley-Short, Principal, West Hills STEM Academy
Ms. Carol Bailie, Supervisor, Human Resources
Ms. Patty Glaser, Supervisor, School Safety & Security
  B. Land Acknowledgement
Director Bolton read the Land Acknowledgement and explained the importance of the public acknowledgement.
  C. Pledge of Allegiance
Director Perkins led the Pledge of Allegiance.
  Action: D. Approval of Agenda
Superintendent Crawford stated that the only changes to the Agenda were to the Human Resources Report under the Consent Agenda; the Human Resources Report was updated earlier this afternoon.  Director Bolton moved to approve the Agenda as presented.  The motion carried unanimously.
  2. CONSENT AGENDA
  President Rotter presented the Consent Agenda for questions or comments.  There were none.  The Consent Agenda included: A. Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of January 11, 2024; B. Minutes of the Executive Session January 11, 2024; C. Payroll for issue date January 31, 2024; D. Human Resources Report 2023-2024-8; E. Overnight/Out-of-State Student Travel:
Kitsap Lake Elementary School 5th graders to Islandwood Outdoor School on Bainbridge Island April 8-11,2024
Bremerton High School Choir students to Washington State All Choir rehearsals and performance in Yakima, WA on February 16-17, 2024
Bremerton High School Cheer Team to compete at the 2024 WIAA State Cheerleading Championship at Battle Ground High School February 2-3, 2024
Bremerton High School DECA Students to compete in the DECA State Conference in Bellevue, WA February 29 to March 2,2024.
Bremerton High School senior football players to visit California Junior College Football Programs March 31- April 2, 2024
F. Ednetics, Inc. Network License Renewal; G. Personal Service Contracts for Special Services with Michael Newman and Elisabeth Diehl and H. Updated 2024/2025 Academic Calendar. Director Bolton moved to approve the Consent Agenda as presented.  The motion carried unanimously.
  3. REPORTS
A. Student Report
Student Representatives to the Board Nora Ramstad and Dillon Lovestedt presented a report to the Board covering recent and upcoming Bremerton High School athletic and school events. They shared that the boys basketball team is undefeated and there are two undefeated wrestlers. The recent Talent Show raised over $700 that will be used towards purchasing new benches for the front of the school. Both representatives attended  the WASA/WSSDA/WASBO Day on the Hill and shared their experience. They spoke about a recent change at Bremerton High school wherein they have switched to digital hall passes as of this new semester.
  B. Board Reports
The Board shared information on some of their recent activities and/or events they have attended since the last Board meeting.
  Director Bolton, who serves as the Legislative Representative for the Board, has been attending weekly meeting with representatives from across the state while session is in. She attended Day on the Hill and coordinated meetings with Central, North and South Kitsap school districts.  She recommended that attendees watch a few different bills:
Isolation and Restraint, House Bill 1479 and Senate Bill 5966 (Companion bill).
Special Education- HB2174 and Senate Bill 6014. HB 2180 would possibly increase the Special Education enrollment funding cap from 15% to 17.25%.
  Director Perkins thanked Dr. Bolton for work as the Legislative representative and added that she has also been fighting for Special Education for many years.
  President Rotter shared that she attended the Strategic Planning Community Forum held at Armin Jahr and that she was excited to see community partners there to share their voice. She was also excited to see what the youth has discussed in the Student Voice Strategic Planning Session when she attended the Alignment Team Meeting. One thing that stood out was their desire for unconditional support. She also participated in an Education Roundtable in Olympia. The most striking thing that came up was the lack of alignment between K-12 and Higher ED. She shared that she has been spending a lot of time looking at the information provided by Mr. Rudee around cell phone policies and  that is not a matter of if  we will we do something but what will it look like.
C. Superintendent's Report
No report was provided.
  D. 2023/2024 General Fund Status
Assistant Superintendent Steedman provided the General Fund Status through 12/30/23. There are 5 major funds. Last year at this time the District was operating in the red by 1.1 million, and this year 2 million. This is to be expected as there are ebbs and flows of funding and expenses. We anticipate to end the year close to even as is always the goal. Dollar in, dollar out. There were no questions.
  4. DISCUSSION/ACTION ITEMS
  Action: A. Highly Capable Policy 2190 Revision - 1st Reading
Julie Fairall presented revised Policy 2190 to the Board. This policy was revised based on passing Senate Bill 5072 that aims to increase equitable access to highly capable programs.
Roy Runyon (community member) asked her to define equitable.
Julie responded, “All special programs are evaluated to look for equitable access, meaning student participation matches our overall student demographics. We look for over representation of any one student group or under representation of any student group in a program”.
Dr. Bolton moved to approve first reading of the Highly Capable Policy 2190 revision. President Rotter queried the student representatives for their advisory votes.  Both Nora and Dillon voted aye.  There were no questions to the motion.  The motion carried unanimously.  
  5. WRITTEN REPORTS
Noted:  A. Lease Agreements - Annual Report. There were no questions
6. CALENDAR OF EVENTS: A. Important Dates to Remember
Upcoming events were noted.
7. PUBLIC INPUT:  A. Request to Address the Board
Adrian Wright expressed his concerns around housing and homeless in Bremerton.
Rex-Zane Rudee returned to address cell phone policies in the schools and share his experiences as a substitute around cell phone use in class. He requested the enforcement of a strict policy.
Roy Runyon asked the board if they support HB 1843 that lowers the threshold to pass school bonds and what their official position is. He also expressed his concern about performance and achievement of our district. He also commented that  the information being shared with the public isn’t revealing the total cost of the bond to voters.
  8. BOARD REFLECTIONS: A. Directors reflections on this evening's meeting
Director Perkins shared that the highlight of the meeting for her was the student reports. She enjoys hearing about all activities that help our students find their niche. She said that she has seen growth in the district and expressed her appreciation for the cell phone information.
Director Bolton shared that Legislative Representatives come together to decide on priorities, it is not something that is done individually and that they are non-partisan position so they don't support certain bills.
Director Hurley thanked Dr. Bolton for being the board’s Legislative Rep and all her work. He expressed that cell phones are a systemic problem that will require a lot of thought and discussion to ensure that policies put in place are enforceable and will be enforced. He thanked Mr. Wright for talking about homelessness and that Bremerton School District has the highest rate of students experiencing homelessness.
Director Rotter thanked everyone who attended Day on the Hill and Dr. Bolton for being their Legislative Representative. She shared that the bill lowering the bond threshold didn't pass and that the funding the district from state based on demographics of students so higher rates of English Language Learners, homelessness, and poverty means more funding.
Nora Ramstad shared that she met with Principal at lunch today about short-term solutions to cell phones for the rest of the school year.
Dillon Lovestedt thanked Dr. Crawford and Bolton for Day on the Hill and share that is year has been a big step coming out of COVID with students finding their niche.
All Members of the board expressed their appreciation to Ioanna Cossack for her service to the board.
  9. ADJOURNMENT: Action: A. Estimated End Time: 6:00 p.m.
At 5:58 p.m., Director Perkins made a motion to adjourn.  The motion carried unanimously and the meeting was adjourned at 5:58 p.m.
    Minutes to be approved at the upcoming Board meeting of February 15, 2024.
        ___________________________________      ________________________________________
Alyson Rotter, Board President                          James Crawford, Ed.D., Secretary to the Board
MS
 