BREMERTON SCHOOL DISTRICT 100-C
Regular Board Meeting - 5:00 p.m.
Thursday, October 17, 2024

Generated by Marlaina D Simmons on Friday, October 18, 2024
1. MEETING OPENING
The meeting of the Bremerton School District Board of Directors was called to order by President Rotter at 5:08
p.m. The meeting was held in the Boardroom located at Bremerton School District at 134 Marion Ave.,
Bremerton, WA 98312.

Members Present:
Ms. Alyson L Rotter, President
Ms. Jonee Dubos
Ms. Carolynn M Perkins
Mr. John P Hurley, Vice President
Ms. Karen Bolton
Administrators Present:
Ms. Donna Colosky, Interim Superintendent
Dr. Garth Steedman, Assistant Superintendent
Ms. Teneka Morley-Short, Director of Standards Based Curriculum and Instruction
Ms. Patty Glaser, Supervisor, School Safety & Security
Ms. Iva Scott, Assistant Superintendent
Ms. Karen Bevers, Director of Communications

Ms. Kelsey McCrery, Director of Special Education & Early Learning
Ms. Ashley Guerrero, Supervisor of Child Nutrition Services
Ms. Kim Weber, Coordinator, Teaching for Learning

2. MEETING OPENING
A. Land Acknowledgement
Director Hurley read the Land Acknowledgement and explained the importance of the public acknowledgement.
B. Pledge of Allegiance

Student Representative Nora Ramstad led the Pledge of Allegiance.
C. Approval of Agenda

Interim Superintendent Colosky noted that the HR report was revised within the last 24 hours. Director Perkins
made a motion to approve the agenda as revised. The motion carried unanimously.
3. OATH OF OFFICE
A. Student Representative Oath of Office
Interim Superintendent Colosky conducted the Oath of Office for new Student Representative to the Board,
Quincy Robinson.
4. CONSENT AGENDA
President Rotter presented the Consent Agenda for questions or comments. The Consent Agenda included: A.
Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of October 3,2024, B. Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of October
8, 2024, C. September 2024 Vouchers, D. Payroll for issue date October 15, 2024, E. Acceptance of Donations,

F. Out of State/Overnight Travel, G. 24-25 Highly Capable Program Plan, H. Interlocal Agreement - BSD and
Central Kitsap School District, I. Policy 0300 - Annual Calendar/Agenda of events, J. Policy 0700 - Evaluation

of District Plans, K. Policy 0100 Vision, Mission and Beliefs Statement, L. MVMS Sports Complex - Change
Order #6, M. HR Report-4. Director Perkins made a motion to approve the Consent Agenda as presented. The
motion carried unanimously.
5. REPORTS
A. Student Representatives' Report
Student Representative to the board Nora Ramstad presented an update on Bremerton High School sports and
activities.
B. Board Reports
Director Perkins shared that she was really excited about the summer home visits that were conducted by
Elementary schools in our district and appreciated that was started.
Director Dubos share that the first bond project advisory meeting was conducted. The Advisory Committee is
conducted of community members and parents from View Ridge and Armin Jahr. They discussed goals and
community impact. Their next meeting is on Monday. Bremerton Foodline grand opening is also Friday at 6:00
p.m.
Director Bolton- For Disability Awareness Month she was invited to Skookum event at the Admiral. She was
also a panelist for Leadership Kitsap. During the School Board Legislative Committee Meeting, all school
districts put in their top 10 priorities and together narrowed it down to four:
1. Full funding of Basic Education
2. Support for Special Education Programs
3. MSCO Funding
4. Amply Funded Staffing Levels
There has been talk from legislators that they might put forward a bill to ban cell phones in schools and add
financial literacy as a graduation requirement. The current economic forecast also shows that cuts will need to
be made at the state level. Dr. Bolton was also on a panel for Kitsap County Youth Forum. The youth shared
Mental Health and Substance Abuse data. She commented that the youth were articulate and shared that they
want more services. They also expressed that they want to stop the fear and guilt around drug addiction, want
health care for all and want to bring back community services as a graduation requirement. Dr. Bolton asked the
students if they would support a cell ban and some said yes but some said no because they want access to
music/podcasts.
Director Hurley share that he was at middle school track meet and a student named Jess Judie threw a javelin
for the first time and threw it 110 feet and broke school record. He then threw it 115 feet, breaking the record
again.
President Rotter attended the Boys and Girls Club dinner and auction with some district staff to show support
for our partnership with them. She also attended the Mountain View Middle School Sports complex ribbon
cutting. There was a great turnout and it showed the amount of community support. Last Friday was the firsttime meeting with AVID students.
C. Superintendent's Report

Interim Superintendent Colosky share that graduation rates up 4% in 1 year and 10.7% in 6 years. We are
currently at a 70.9% graduation rate. She also shared the Child Nutrition Services Supervisor, Ashley Guerrero,
wrote a grant and were awarded over $100,000 to expand fresh fruit and vegetables in our schools!
D. Disabilities Awareness Month Presentation - Special Education

Kelsey McCreary, Director of Special Education and Early Learning provided a Special Education Report.
Special Education services spans from preschool up to age 22 in Bremerton School District. There are currently
805 students eligible for Special Education Services. The eligibility rate in our district is 20%, however, the
state funded rate is only 16%. This year the SPED department hired 19 new certificated staff. They are working
to create uniformity across the department and reviewing all IEPs for compliance and quality. They are also
starting an Advisory Council, Kelsey will be conducting monthly site visits and exploring expanding their
services. They received a grant to reduce restraint and isolation and will be using the funds to train our
employees to be Right Response trainers.
Director Bolton asked where the grant funding came from and Director McCreary responded that it was a state
grant.

Director Hurley asked if Director McCreary is noticing patterns in the complexity or number of needs. Director
McCreary share that she is seeing some of the most complex needs she has seen in 12 years coming in from
Holly Ridge Center.
Director Hurley also asked is the Advisory Council includes community members. Director McCreary
responded that at the moment it just staff but she hopes to add community in the future.
Director Dubos asked Director McCreary to elaborate on the road map. Director McCreary responded that it is
an internal document for staff. It is used as a guide book for considerations when setting up classroom
environments.
6. PUBLIC INPUT
A. Request to Address the Board
No public input was given
7. DISCUSSION/ACTION
A. Resolution 2024/25-10; Disability History and Awareness Month
President Rotter introduced 2024/25-10; Disability History and Awareness Month. Director Bolton made a
motion to approve Resolution 2024/2025-10 as presented, proclaiming October 2024 as Disability History and
Awareness Month in the Bremerton School District. The motion carried unanimously.
B. Revised Policy 6950; Contractor Assurances, Surety Bonds, Insurance, and Change Orders

Assistant Superintendent Dr. Garth Steedman presented revised Policy 6950 to the Board for first reading on
October 17, 2024. This policy has many changes as recommended by WSSDA in regards to the original content
(Assurances, Surety Bonds, and Insurance), and now includes Change Orders (content taken from Policy 6957,
Change Orders, which is also being recommended for retirement). Director Bolton made a motion to approve
revised Policy 6950 as presented for first read. The motion carried unanimously.
8. WRITTEN REPORTS
The following written reports were noted:
A. 0700P Plan Evaluation

B. 3114F; Request for Ancillary Services
C. 4260P; Use of School Facilities
Director Hurley thanked leadership for listening to the board’s feedback. He suggested having season passes for
groups using fields long. He commented that he likes that local youth organizations get a different rate and
suggested that they provide proof.
9. CALENDAR OF EVENTS
A. Important Dates to Remember
Upcoming events were noted.

10. BOARD REFLECTIONS

A. Directors' reflections on this evening's meeting.
Director Hurley expressed concerns around master scheduling and making choices between classes such as
AVID and PE. He thanked Ashley Guerrero for her work on the fruits and vegetables grant and Director
McCreary for the Special Education Report and noted that we are still not fully funded.
Director Bolton also thanked Director McCreary for her report. She also thanked Superintendent Colosky and
district Leadership and commented that she appreciates the “get it and go” around the Strategic Plan. She
thanked Ashley Guerrero and commented how important fresh fruits and vegetables are. She also shared that
she had an informal conversation with Mayor Wheeler and invited him to school linkage site visits.
Director Dubos commented that the CSIP Study Session was amazing and she noticed a lot of commonalities
amongst schools. She likes to see that each school is aligning goals to the Strategic Plan.
Director Perkins also thanked Ashley Guerrero and Director McCreary.
President Rotter shared that the CSIP study sessions are loves getting to interact with Principals and sees value
in having the whole system together. She thanked Interim Superintendent Colosky for sharing the graduation
rate success. She commented that she doesn’t just look at what one test says about a child. The board looks at
the whole child.
11. ADJOURNMENT
A. Adjournment — estimated time 6:00 p.m.
At 6:22 p.m. Director Perkins made a motion to adjourn the meeting. The motion carried unanimously.

Qygen VA

Alyson Rofter, Board President
MS

Mapaane QU

Donna Dearin-Colosky, Secr€tary to the Board

