BREMERTON

SCHOOL

DISTRICT

100-C

Regular Board Meeting, 5:00 p.m.
Thursday, April 11, 2024
Generated by Marlaina D Simmons on Friday, April 12, 2024
1. MEETING

OPENING

The meeting of the Bremerton School District Board of Directors was called to order by President Rotter at 5:02 p.m.
The

meeting

was

held

in the Boardroom

located

at Bremerton

School

District at 134

Marion

Ave.,

Bremerton,

WA

98312.
Members

Present:

Members

Ms. Alyson L Rotter, President

Absent:

Ms. Jonee M Dubos

Mr. John P Hurley, Vice President
Dr. Karen

J Bolton

Ms. Carolynn
Ms.

Nora

M Perkins

Ramstad,

Mr. Dillon

Student

Lovestedt,

Administrators

Representative

Student

Representative

to the Board
to the Board

Present:

Dr. James Crawford, Superintendent
Ms. Iva Scott, Assistant Superintendent
Dr. Garth

Steedman,

Assistant

Ms. Brittane DeBard,
Ms. Teneka
Ms.

Carol

Superintendent

Executive Director, Learning & Leadership Development

Morley-Short, Principal, West Hills STEM
Bailie, Supervisor,

Human

Academy

Resources

Ms. Patty Glaser, Supervisor, School Safety & Security
Ms. Cathie Seevers,

Director of Finance

Mr. Nikhil Gautam,

Director of Technology Services

Ms.

Cynthia

B. Land

Cantwell,

Director of Academics,

SE, and

Cognitive

Learning

Acknowledgement

Director Hurley read the Land Acknowledgement
C. Pledge

and explained the importance of the public acknowledgement.

of Allegiance

Director Perkins led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Action:

D. Approval

of Agenda

Superintendent Crawford stated that there were changes to the HR Report. Director Bolton moved to approve the
Agenda

as presented.

The motion carried unanimously.

2. BOARD

RECOGNITION

A. Month

of the Military Child / "Purple Up" Day

Presidents Rotter provided an overview of Month of the Military Child and recognized the military connected students
and families within our district.
B. Volunteer Appreciation

Month

Presidents Rotter provided an overview of Volunteer Appreciation
many volunteers that support our district.
3. CONSENT

AGENDA

month and expressed

her heartfelt gratitude for the

President Rotter presented the Consent Agenda for questions or comments.

included:

There were none.

The Consent Agenda

A. Minutes of the Regular Board Meeting of March 21, 2024, B. Payroll for Issue Date of March 29, 2024, C. Payroll for
the Issue Date of April 15, 2024, D. Vouchers for March 2024, E. Human Resources Report-12 F. Out of
State/Overnight Student Travel, H. Purchase of Two New Buses, I. Approval of NW Boiler, Inc. proposal to install two
new boilers at Crownhill Elementary School, J. Change order for Nexus Building Envelope Consultants inspections
contract. Director Bolton moved to approve the Consent Agenda as presented. The motion carried unanimously.
4. REPORTS

A. Student Representative's Report
Student Representatives to the Board Nora Ramstad and Dillon Lovestedt presented a report to the Board covering
recent and upcoming Bremerton High School athletic and school events. A few highlights from their presentation
include:
e

Girls Softball had a 15-20 win

e

Girls Tennis had 2 wins against Port Angeles

e

Cheer tryouts this week

e

National Honor Society fundraiser on April 30th from 5-8 at Bluberry Frozen Yogurt
ASB and Class officer elections coming at the end of month

Boys Soccer- PA both JV and Varsity won

e

B. Board Reports
The Board shared

information on some

meeting.

e

of their recent activities and/or events they have attended since the last Board

Director Hurley attended the National School Board Association conference in New Orleans, LA and found the
sessions to be powerful and informative. Ruby Bridges, who integrated school in New Orleans at 6 years old in

1960, was one of the keynote presenters. Joseph Schriever, whose family integral in the development of
Special Olympics was another keynote presenter. He attended a session on electric busses, passion of his and
hopes Bremerton School District can add infrastructure for electric vehicles. He also attended a session on AI

e

e
e

and how districts can use Chat GBT/AI to be useful to prepare students for the future.
Director Bolton will be traveling to Spokane next week to meet with all the State9s Legislative Reps. They will
be reviewing 85 proposals from school boards across the state and then decide if it will go to general assembly
in September to vote on. From there, they choose the top 10 to bring to legislature. She has been getting a
lot of questions about Inititative 2181 on Parental Rights and why it was brought in house instead of going to

the voters. The decision was made because the majority of what is in the bill is already occurring and brining
it in house allows legislators to remove anything that does not align with their values.

Director Perkins was excited to hear about NSBA and thanked rest of board for work.
Director Rotter shared that one thing she found most impactful from Ruby Bridges Keynote was that no matter
what was going on as she walked in the school that day, the moment she walked in the teacher was the most
loving and caring adult to her. That is the case for the kids in our district. She shared that Joseph Shriver9s
keynote was around his work around dignity and that they were challenged during keynote about how they
see people. She also attended the session on Electric buses and found it fascinating. She enjoyed being

outside of Washington
in Washington.

and hearing perspectives from other states. Some

is very affirming to where we are at

C. Superintendent's Report
Superintendent Crawford asked Brittane Debard to introduce new principal of View Ridge Arts Academy. Brittane
introduced Carol Mendoza who comes to Bremerton with 18 years of Admin Experience starting in Seattle Public
Schools and is now on Bainbridge Island.

Ms. Mendoza

shared that she feels honored to be next principal of View Ridge Arts Academy.

D. Mountain View Middle School Sports Complex
Assistant Superintendent Garth Steedman

Project Update

provided an update on the Mountain View Middle School Sports Complex.

The proposal was brought to the school board in October of 2021
presentations began in early 2022. The Levy passed

and was adopted

in November.

Community

in Feb of 2022 and in June 2023 site clearing began. The project

is currently within budget and has a projected completion date of August 16, 2024.
Director Hurley asked about the universal lacrosse lines and Dr. Steedman

responded that we are currently getting

prices on adding them.
Director Rotter thanked

Dr. Steedman

for providing the update to "closed the loop' on what is being done with levy

dollars.
E. General

Fund Balance Status

Assistant Superintendent Garth Steedman
There

provided an update on the district9s

5 major funds.

is currently just under 10 million in the general fund. Looking at last year we always run in the deficit this time

of year. We are a

little lower this year but in a normal

also have safety net funds coming
F. Bond

pattern. April when

come

in it will pop us up. We

Update

Cory Plager with DA Davidson and Mark Prussing with ESD
e

levy money

in august with SPED funding. The goal is the break even.

Schools

get to take advantage

of tax exempt

112 shared information on our recently passed Bond:

interest

rates on Bonds.

e

An interest rate cushion was built in when

e

The goal is to get the lowest interest cost and get earnings.

e

They are confident they can meet the commitment we made to tax payers

e

The plan is to sell bonds June and have the money to district in July

5. DISCUSSION/ACTION

created plan.

ITEMS

Action: A. Resolution 2023/2024-18;

Unlimited Tax General Obligations Bonds, 2024

The Resolution was presented by Assistant Superintendent Garth Steedman.
Director Hurley asked what is the risk to the district of not being able to pay? What would that look like?
Dr. Steedman

said that people would have to stop paying their property taxes Mark Prussing share that the district

never gets the money, the county levies the dollars and that there is very little risk. Director Bolton asked

if we pay

interest up front every year or just the first year? Mr. Prussing shared that we pay interest twice a year.
Director Bolton moved

to approve Resolution 2023/2024-18

representatives for their advisory votes.

as presented.

Both Nora and Dillon voted aye.

President Rotter queried the student
There were no questions to the motion.

The motion carried unanimously.
Action:

B. Bremerton

Deann

Irish presented the request for an Excusion to Italy in June of 2020. She has previously done tours with this

High School Excursion to Italy

organization and has gone to France. They put safety and education first. Students can also earn credit for an
additional fee. There are 6 students signed up already and there will be an Informational session next week.
Director Bolton asked if there is a need for
Ms. Irish responded

a minimum

amount of students.

no but the more the merrier.

Director Rotter asked where students are being recruited from?
Ms. Irish responded that there was an international studies club and she is thinking of bringing it back.
Director Bolton asked

if there any subsidy for cost.

Ms. Irish responded that there isn9t but there will be opportunities for fundraising.
Question from the audience- Can students be sponsored?
Ms. Irish responded that they can.
Director Bolton

shared

that she hopes

we

can

look at other funding

revenues

to open

it up to more

students.

Director Perkins moved to approve proposed travel to Italy in June of 2025 as presented. President Rotter queried the
student representatives for their advisory votes. Both Nora and Dillon voted aye. There were no questions to the
motion. The motion carried unanimously.
Action, Recognition:

C. Resolution 2023/2024-16; Month of the Military Child
Director Rotter honored and recognized military connected children and reminded people of purple up day on April
sth. Director Bolton moved to approve Resolution 2023/2024-16, Month of the Military Child, as presented. President
Rotter queried the student representatives for their advisory votes. Both Nora and Dillon voted aye. There were no

questions to the motion.

The motion carried unanimously.

Action: D. Resolution 2023/2024-17; Volunteer Appreciation Month
Director Rotter expressed her heart felt appreciation our volunteers and all they do for our district. Director Perkins
moved to approve Resolution 2023/2024-17 proclaiming April 2024 as Volunteer Appreciation Month in the Bremerton
School
and

District, as presented.

Dillon voted

6. WRITTEN

aye.

There

President
were

Rotter queried

no questions to the

the student

representatives

for their advisory votes.

motion.

motion

unanimously.

The

carried

Both

Nora

REPORTS

Noted:

A. Enrollment Report, B. 3207P; Procedure for Prohibition of Harassment, Intimidation, and Bullying of
Students. 2022P- Procedure: Use of Personal Electronic Devices. There were no comments questions on reports.
7. CALENDAR

OF EVENTS

A. Important Dates to Remember
Upcoming events were noted.

8. PUBLIC

INPUT

A. Request

to Address

the

Board

No public input was given.
9. BOARD

REFLECTIONS

A. Directors9 reflections on this evening's meeting.
e

e

Director Perkins shared that it is exciting to see as we progress on the bond. Because of all the staff and
community, this is happening and she thanked everyone. She is also excited about the new Sports Complex
and believes that our students will excel even more because sports are a connection.
Director Bolton expressed that hearing about Ruby Bridges is very personal for her. Her parents fled the
oppressive South to raise their family in Pennsylvania. A few years later she was sent to Kindergarten and it

was hard being a young

black girl in

a white neighborhood.

She feels that there has been a

shift in the

protection of our kids in schools and she will continue to advocated to provide a warm and welcoming
environment for our kids. She loves Bremerton for how we take car of our kids and she will always fight for
them.
e

Director Hurley stated that our volunteers are often times the welcoming person kids look to at school. They
can be the one person a kid relates to or makes them feel welcome. He appreciates the love and caring nature
of Bremerton

e

e
e

His brother had special and all the support his brother received is why his parent kept
them here. He also feels it is important for students to get to experience other cultures such as the trip to
Italy and appreciates the teachers taking the time to create that experience.
Student Representative Nora Ramstad feels that is an exciting time of year. There is a peak that shines

through from all the work throughout the school year. She is grateful that as a student of color she never
realized she was any different until she was older. It was never a barrier within the district and she loves that.
Student Representative Dillon Lovestedt expressed his excitement about sports the sports complex.
Director Rotter felt that the sharing tonight has been pretty cool and she was feeling very grateful that his
board

e

schools.

leads the way we do.

Dr. Crawford shared that he has been going out to schools spending about 3 hours getting to know staff.
Today he went to Crownhill and spent time with school leadership and he commented that they are amazing

and that they focused on all the wonderful things they have been working on and all the kids that inspire
them.

He asked if they would be interested in bringing in Legislators and having a panel of real-life teacher

experiences and he is excited about the possibility.
10. ADJOURNMENT
A. Adjournment

- estimated

At 6:24

Director

adjourned

p.m.,

time

Perkins

7:00

made

p.m.

a motion

to adjourn.

The

motion

carried

unanimously

at 6:24 p.m.

Minutes to be approved at the upcoming Board meeting of May 2, 2024.

Alyson Rotter, Board President
MS

James Crawford,

Ed.D., Secretary to the Board

and

the

meeting

was

