  Regular Board Meeting - Virtual via Zoom & In-Person (6:00 p.m.) (Tuesday, October 22, 2024)
Generated by Deborah Kohr on Tuesday, October 22, 2024
    1. Call To Order
  A. Call to Order
  Director Simpson called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. 
  B. Roll Call
  Director Simpson called Roll Call. 
  Board Directors Present: 
Director Larson
Director Simpson 
Director Proctor
Director Kruller
  Board Directors Absent: 
Director Hoover - Excused
  Student Representatives Present:
Alex Brewster - Sr. Rep. 
Aiden Hallock - Jr. Rep. 
  Student Representatives Absent: 
None 
  C. Welcome Guests
  Director Simpson welcomed guests. 
  Guests: 
Dr. Concie Pedroza 
Deborah Kohr 
Andra Maughan 
Dr. Jessica Proctor 
Naomi Byrdo 
Courtney Martinez
Duane Meyer 
Liliana Cardenas
Robin Allsopp 
Shauyb Nur 
Amy Fleming 
Scott Whitbeck 
Aiden Hallock 
Chelsea Hallock 
Maricel Haessig
Susie Kelly 
Lennon Colwell
Joe Camacho
Danielle Eastman
Brandon Eastman 
    D. Land Recognition - Director Simpson
  Director Simpson conducted the Land Acknowledgement. 
  E. Flag Salute
  Director Simpson led the room in the Pledge of Allegiance. 
  2. Approval of Agenda
  A. Approval of the Agenda for the October 22, 2024 Regular Board Meeting
  Director Kruller made a motion to approve the agenda of the October 22, 2024 Regular Board Meeting. 
Director Larson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  3. Oath of Office
  A. Oath of Office - Jr. Student Representative - A. Hallock
  Dr. Concie Pedroza, Superintendent, conducted the Oath of Office for Jr. Student Representative Aiden Hallock. 
  4. Public Comment
  A. Public Comment
  Director Simpson called for Public Comments. 
  Joe Camacho, Teacher - FHS - Foster High School is proud to receive the King County Re+ School Voucher to support our transition to compostable utensils. By making this switch, we estimate a reduction of 233,280 plastic utensils annually, contributing to waste reduction and environmental stewardship. Our total supply request was for approximately $7,700, based on pricing from the Cedar Grove-approved vendor used by other local districts. This opportunity was made possible through our partnership with Sam Wilder at the city of Tukwila who has also supported our student led composting program at FHS and other compositing initiatives at the elementary schools. The compostable utensils were delivered last week on 10/17 and are being used in the lunchroom as of 10/21. By switching to compostable utensils we have reduced the amount of plastic in our lunchroom that students have to sort- almost everything in the lunchroom is compostable now. Students are only separating the milk cartons, which are recyclable, and the plastic wrap and plastic clamshells/cups used for salads, fruit, and parfaits. Earlier this year the FHS garden program received funding from the Port of Seattle through the South King County Community Impact Fund for a total of $60,000 - $20,000 each year over the next 3 years.- this grant will fund the first few phases of the garden expansion including the outdoor classroom, additional growing spaces, perimeter fencing, and much more. Tilth Alliance, a local non-profit, agreed to serve as a fiscal sponsor for the grant and has been assisting with the planning and implementation of the project. Unfortunately, the project is currently at a standstill as the approval of the next phase of the garden expansion is being passed from director to director at the district level. While we have been awarded the grant, if we do not utilize the funds each year we will lose access to the remaining funds. I’m looking forward to working with district leadership  and our partners at Tilth Alliance to create a garden where our students can learn and grow.
    Robin Allsopp - Secretary - Tukwila Elementary -  Congratulated Aiden Hallock as the new Jr. Student Representative to the Board of Directors.   
  5. Reports
  A. Student Representatives Report
  Sr. Student Rep Brewster reported on finalizing his presentation for the WSSDA Annual Conference and will be co-presenting with Director Larson.  He reported that he was not able to attend the first meeting of the Student Advisory Board due to illness.    
  Jr. Student Rep Hallock reported on attending the Student Advisory Board meeting.  The discussion centered on student concerns around safety and environment, specifically at Showalter Middle School.  The committee also discussed Acadmic policy, which shed light on the work we still need to do to make Tukwila safe for all students. 
  B. Superintendent Report
  Happy October,
I hope that everyone is getting ready for their celebrations at the end of the month.  I have the following updates for the community.    
Updates:
There is still an uptick in absences due to COVID-19 and we continue to monitor the situation. 
I have sincere appreciation to all of the families who came to our school open houses and thank you to the staff for your diligence and preparation for the event. 
Parent-teacher conferences will be November 6th-8th. Families should receive information about the conferences.  Cascade View, Thorndyke, Tukwila Elementary, and Foster HS will be conducting conferences and it is an early release for students.  Showalter conferences will be held in December.
It is School Bus Safety Week – Please talk to your students about school bus safety and give a thumbs up to our bus drivers who dedicate their time to transporting our students safely.  They are an amazing crew!    
Julie Herdt, our MKV Quality Specialist was selected as one of two nominees that Washington State will forward to the U.S. Department of Education for consideration of the 20204 RISE award. 
Thank you, Representatives David Hackney, Steve Bergquist, and Mia Gregerson, for your support and willingness to learn about the great wrap-around support for McKinney Vento students.  Director Larson can share more in his update.
Congratulations to the Foster High School football team who won their Homecoming game with a victorious win! 
This month is National Principal Appreciation Month!  I want to give the highest shout-out to our Principals!  Thank you so much to Michael Croyle at Thorndyke Elementary, Dr. Tenesha Fremstad at Cascade View Elementary, Hani Nur at Tukwila Elementary, Brett Christopher at Showalter Middle School, and LaTanya Parker at Foster High School.  I also want to send some appreciation to our assistant principals Cindy Perez, JR Lorca and Naz Rokonaki.
Cascade View is having its Monster Bash on October 25th at 6:30 pm. Details are on our website. 
I want to share that safety—social, emotional, physical, and social media safety—for our students is critical. We will continue to prioritize safety in all forms in our district, investigate thoroughly all situations, and implement enhanced protocols to ensure our students' safety. 
  C. Board of Directors Report
  Director Kruller reported she was out on medical activities.  Additionally, she shared that the Historical Society which became dormant during COVID, has re-energized. Activities recently started at the end of July with meetings on the third Wednesday of the month.  As they have been reviewing their lease, it was noted that one their requirements is to have student programs.  Director Kruller is bringing this back to the district to see what ways can we get students excited bout the Historica Society.  Superintendent Pedroza will connect with Historical Society .  
  Director Simpson reported on attending FHS homecoming and working in concessions. We need more volunteers.  Where are the ASB and Booster programs? How are those programs being fostered? What is the best way to get more parents involved?  
  Director Proctor reported on collaborating with Principal Christopher for the Husky Football team to visit Showalter Middle School on Friday, October 25th.   
  Director Larson shared an update on the final ranking for the top 10 WSSDA Legislative issues.  He reported attending the FHS homecoming game.  There were a lot of people in the stands.  He attended the Open House at Thorndyke Elementary, which was well attended.  The League of Education Voters and Roadmap project is hosting a student advocacy event at the Renton Pavillion on Saturday. Director Larson shared information from the Legislator Visit.  The discussion focused on McKinney-Vento students and was informative for the district and our local legislators.  Director Larson shared that he met with the TEA President to discuss working together to advocate for funding for Tukwila.   
  6. Consent Agenda
  A. Approval of Minutes from the September 24, 2024 Board Meeting
  B. Approval of Minutes from the October 8, 2024 Board Work Session
  C. Approval of Warrants (General Fund, Capital Projects Fund, Associated Student Body Program Fund, Vouchers and Debt Service payments) (REVIEWED BY DIRECTORS LARSON and SIMPSON)
  Director Proctor made a motion to approve the Consent Agenda. 
Director Larson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  7. Presentations
  There were no presentations. 
  8. Board Discussion
  A. Policies for First Review
  Director Larson shared comments regarding Policy No. 0100.  Comments included:
  Student Advisory Anti-Racist statements- some of the statements are included, but not all.  Director Byrdo shared that several pieces of the Anti-Racist statement would be included in the procedure. 
Concerns between the Student Advisory Anti-Racist Document and Race and Equity policy not being aligned. 
Add disaggregated data (refer to Highline policy), as part of the procedure.
  Director Larson commented on Policy No. 2151 that he is looking for that are interscholastic between schools, i.e. robotics, environmental science competition, etc. He shared that "non-athletic programs and events" can be removed, and replaced with "participation in inter-scholastic programs". 
    9. Questions Only - Presentations
  A. Enrollment Report - October 2024
    B. Interscholastic Activities - Non-Athletic
    C. Risk Management Program - Status Review per Policy 6500
    D. Capital Projects Plan and Winterization Update
  Liliana Cardenas, Director of Maintenance, Operations, and Capital Projects presented to the Board of Directors. Highlights included: 
  Grant Updates
Summer 2024 Projects - Updates
Levy Projects - 24-25
Weather Damage Mitigation
    Director Larson inquired on the air quality at Cascade View, in particular, the internal air quality.  We know that the school is located near the Sea-Tac Airport.  He shared that, to his knowledge, we've never done any studies about indoor air quality at Cascade View, or the number of students who have asthma, etc.  He shared that there have been discussions regarding Cascade View being updated/replaced, but that will be in approximately seven (7) years if a bond is approved.  Is there a way to improve the ventilation at a reasonable amount of cost?  Director Cardenas shared that sensors need to be installed around the school to ensure that we are getting correct readings on indoor air quality. 
  Director Larson inquired about lead in the water. at Foster High School.  Director Cardenas shared that they received information from the Department of Health.  They are starting to test in school districts, however, they will start with school districts that they have not had in testing first.  We are currently on their list for testing, but we are near the end of the list for testing.  She shared that she has researched TSD testing on our own, but there are costs related to doing that.  Director Larson suggested that we conduct strategic testing in buildings that we think might have higher lead levels.  He shared that testing at FHS was postponed because of the remodel. Director Cardenas shared that 80% of the plumbing was replaced during the remodel, fountains were replaced, etc.  The two (2) fountains in the gym and the one (1) fountain in the music hall were not replaced. Director Larson commented that those three fountains should be tested. 
  CFO Fleming shared that testing costs would come out of the General Fund budget which is really "tight" right now.  Director Simpson asked if the testing could be conducted by TSD.  Director Cardenas shared that we have to use an outside company and/or contractor to test for lead as all the reports must be certified.  Director Cardenas shared that the cost could be over $20,000.  She shared that she has already contacted PBS Environmental to discuss lead testing.  The $20,000 estimate from PBS Environmental included testing at all schools, for all drinkable water.  This would not include water from the bathroom sinks.   
  Director Larson commented that signs should be placed in the bathrooms and other areas that direct students to use the drinking fountains.  
  Director Kruller made a motion to get a scaled-down estimate to test lead in water in specific student areas that the students are using for their drinking areas, including samples in some areas where pipes were not replaced, as well as in areas where pipes were replaced and will include the drinking fountains in the gym and the music room.     
Director Larson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  E. Technology Plan
  Director Larson commented on the robotics program.  We have robotic programs at the elementary level, and we need to figure out a way to get this program back into the middle school.  We need to find a way to have access to both sports and STEM programs.  Director Larson shared that he would like to see some specific items in the plan to address getting the robotics program back in the middle school.  Executive Director Draganov shared that the district is not opposed to supporting a robotics program.  We have offered a stipend for any educators who are interested in leading the robotics program before or after school. One task through the tech team is putting out information throughout the weekly bulletin which will start getting people excited about it.  We have had strong participation in one of the elementary schools in the past.  We do have everything needed, including compensation, to get this program running again.  
  Additional discussion on: 
  Cyber security 
Tracking of items on hold due to budgetary concerns
Creative Learning Labs
Professional Development
AI Protocols - Presentation by Theren Hayes requested. 
    F. School Safety Plan
  Director Larson commented on the plan's statement that "Schools should discourage students from using cell phones."  He shared that cell phones could be very helpful. Chief Whitbeck agreed and shared that cell phones would be helpful depending on the situation, i.e., lockdown versus lockout versus shelter in place and what is the difference. We could add definitions of each situation. 
  Director Larson shared that this document needs to be simplified for parents and families.  
  Director Simpson asked if the SRO is included in the plans?  Chief Whitbeck shared that the SRO is included in the safety plans. 
    Director Kruller shared that the plans are not very well organized. She shared that there is a national program called CERT which stands for Community/Citizens Emergency Response Teams. She shared that the City of Tukwila collaborated with the police and fire department on their safety plan. She asked if we have been in contact with those departments on the district's safety plans.  Chief Whitbeck shared that once we get feedback from the Board, schools, staff, etc. then we will work with the police and fire department.   
  10. Action Items
  A. Approval of Human Resources Staffing Report
  Director Larson made a motion to approve the Human Resources Staffing Report. 
Director Proctor seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  B. Approval of School Improvement Plans
  Director Larson made a motion to approve the School Improvement Plans.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.
    Director Larson shared that this is a draft, and he will not approve a draft.  There should be a discussion on the SIPs. He shared that it would be nice to have the SIP plans come to Board in a more adjustable format and include the goals, which are distributed throughout.  Additionally, include information on last year's goals, i.e. what were they, were they achieved or not, why or why not, etc. Then move to next year's goals. Superintendent Pedroza shared that school administrators looked at last year's data when revising those plans.  They spent time in school leader's meetings looking at and discussing all data and revisions.  The state requires the template that is used for the plans.  A new template will require additional time.  Additionally, the state requires that SIP's are approved by January 31st.  Chief Whitbeck shared that the OSPI Coach attended all of the meetings regarding the SIPs and data.  All of the notes and minutes from those meetings would lye with them. Director Larson commented that he does not want a new template, he wants the goals listed. Chief Whitbeck shared that the plans presented today have been approved by the OSPI coach. 
  Superintendent Pedroza recommended the SIPs are removed from action, continue review, and present for approval at a future board meeting. 
    Director Kruller withdrew the motion.
Director Larson seconded.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried. 
  C. Approval of Out of State Travel Request - Basketball Tournament - 12/17 - 12/21 - Las Vegas, Nevada
  Director Kruller made a motion to approve Out of State Travel Request - Basketball Tournament - 12/17 - 12/21 - Las Vegas, Nevada. 
Director Larson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  11. Public Comment
  A. Public Comment
  Director Simpson called for Public Comments. 
  There were no public comments. 
  12. Executive Session
  There were no items for Executive Session. 
  13. Adjourn
  A. Adjourn
  Director Larson made a motion to adjourn the meeting. 
Director Kruller seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  Director Simpson adjourned the meeting at 8:24 p.m. 
 