  Board Work Session - via Zoom and In Person (3:00 p.m.) (Tuesday, June 11, 2024)
Generated by Deborah Kohr on Monday, June 10, 2024
  1. Call To Order
  A. Call to Order
  President Hoover called the meeting to order at 3:01 p.m. 
  B. Roll Call
  President Hoover called Roll Call. 
  Board Directors Present: 
President Hoover
Director Kruller
Director Larson 
Director Simpson 
Director Proctor
  Board Directors Absent: 
None
  C. Welcome Guests
  President Hoover welcomed guests. 
  Guests:
Dr. Concie Pedroza 
Deborah Kohr 
Scott Whitbeck 
Aaron Draganov
Naomi Byrdo
Amy Fleming
Edna Morris 
Maricel Haessig
Andra Maughan
Silvia Dicus-Mora
Carrie Marting 
Duane Meyer
Dana England 
Joe Camacho
Jenni Standard 
Jorge Torres
Danielle Eastman
  2. Approval of Agenda
  A. Approval of Agenda
  Director Kruller made a motion to approve the Agenda. 
Director Larson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  3. Public Comment
  A. Public Comment
  President Hoover called for Public Comments. 
  There were no public comments. 
  4. Discussion Items
  A. 24-25 Update
  Dr. Pedroza presented the 24-25 Tukwila School District Plan.  Highlights included:
  Two (2) community forums were held in May and June.  There were a lot of staff, families, and community members in attendance.  This was a great discussion with a lot of good questions.  The forums were recorded and will be posted on our website, along with FAQs.  Thank you to all of the participants.
We are still going through this process until mid-June.  There are staff waiting to hear their next steps. 
Director Larson shared that he attended the community forum. One idea that came out of the community meetings was to develop a letter advocating for funding that could be sent to the legislature from community members and families.  Dr. Pedroza shared that we crafted a letter similar to what the Board of Directors sent to our legislators, and we have a family letter.  These letters have already been sent to communications.   
This presentation is for the 2024-2025 school year.  We still need to raise our fund balance, so there will be additional reductions next year.  
We are in bargaining this year, which will have financial implications for 24-25. 
Review of the six (6) District Race and Equity Goals.
Review of Fiscal Goals - grant for 5th-grade camp, anti-racist district, abide by binding conditions, monitor enrollment number, ensure staffing is in alignment with enrolment 
Review of HR timeline for staffing reductions
District Initiatives - Universal Design for Learning and MTSS framework, Belong Partners, Boys & Girls Club and City of Tukwila Park & Recreations, Curriculum, Assessments, Horizon grant. 
School Program Impacts, Mitigation Plan and Reductions
District-Wide Impacts, Mitigation Plan and Reductions
Partnerships, Mitigation Plan and Financial Impacts 
     Director Simpson shared that he would like to know who will be responsible for specific areas of work and will they provide updates to the Board.  Dr. Pedroza shared that she is the person responsible for all of the work happening in the district currently and next year.  She also shared that she will share with the Board all updates on the work being done in the district. 
  Director Larson would like to keep the PAC and the arts in the forefront.  President Hoover would like to have a plan for sustaining it as well possibly through CTE. 
  Director Simpson asked for additional clarification regarding the financial impacts.  Dr. Pedroza shared that she would update this presentation with total cost reductions on each page and resend it to the Board.  It is important to keep in mind that this is just a snapshot.   
  5. Adjourn
  A. Adjourn
  Director Simpson made a motion to adjourn the Work Session. 
Director Larson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 