  Board Work Session - via Zoom and In Person (3:00 p.m.) (Tuesday, March 12, 2024)
Generated by Deborah Kohr on Monday, March 11, 2024
    1. Call To Order
  A. Call to Order
  Director Simpson called the meeting to order at 3:00 p.m. 
  B. Roll Call
  Director Simpson called Roll Call. 
  Board Directors Present: 
Director Larson
Director Proctor 
Director Simpson
President Hoover  
  Board Directors Absent: 
None
  Student Representatives Present: 
Alex Brewster
  Student Representatives Absent: 
Dennis Nguyen
  C. Welcome Guests
  Director Simpson welcomed guests. 
  Guests: 
Dr. Concie Pedroza 
Deborah Kohr 
Scott Whitbeck 
Stacy Lappin 
Aaron Draganov 
Jeff Baker 
Andra Maughan 
Amy Fleming 
Allison Deno 
Liliana Cardenas
Community Member 
Kate Kreueller
Naomi Byrdo
Sally Jerome 
  2. Public Comment
  A. Public Comment
  Director Simpson called for Public Comment. 
  Director Simpson read the following public comment:  
  Tim Renz - Parent, Foster High School Science Teacher, and long-time Tukwila School District Staff - As mentioned in the Public Comments of the TSD Regular Board meeting held on February 27, 2024, I placed petitions in both English and Spanish at each of the 3 elementary schools in the afternoon of February 28, 2024 to collect signatures of support for continuing the school district subsidies for the Champions program. The petitions were only out and available for less than a day as the Champions Program Manager asked the Champion Building Leads to remove the petitions on February 29 in fear of retribution from the District. It is likely that not all parents even got to see the petition. I collected the petitions the afternoon of March 7th and they had not been put back out. Still, in less than 24 hours, a total of 100 signatures from parents and district staff were collected. There were 24 from Tukwila Elementary, 54 from Thorndyke Elementary, and 22 from Cascade View Elementary. These also represent 97 students and 24 district staff and community members who don't have children using the Champions services directly.  This is an overwhelming response in such a short period of time. Imagine how many more signatures would have been collected if the petitions weren't removed after only a day. Speaking on behalf of the 100 people who signed the petitions in the short window that was available and especially the 97 students who are sure to be negatively impacted by the short-sighted decision to remove the District subsidy for the Champions program mid-year in violation of the year-long service agreement (aka contract) that these families entered into with the District and Champions, I urge the District to reinstate the subsidies for the remainder of the school year and look at possible solutions for the future.  I have the original copies of the petitions if needed. Thanks for your consideration. I am open and willing to discuss this matter further. 
  3. Approval of Agenda
  A. Approval of Agenda
  Director Larson made a motion to approve the Agenda.
Director Proctor seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.  
  4. Discussion Items
  A. Strategic Plan - High Expectations and Excellence for All
  Scott Whitbeck, Chief Academic Officer and Dr. Allison Deno, Executive Director of Multilingual Services & PK-12 Education presented the Strategic Plan section High Expectations and Excellence for All. 
  Highlights included: 
  High Expectations and Excellence for All 
  We believe in graduating responsible, civically engaged students.
  We believe in using resources responsibly to produce successful student outcomes.
  Desired Outcome: Student achievement increases as a result of high-quality instruction and high expectations by staff.
  Goal: Percentage of students meeting standard on assessments in English Language Arts and Mathematics - Smarter Balanced Assessment
  Measure:  All students will increase by 10% in each core area (ELA, Mathematics, and Science) as reported on the OSI report card for 23-24 and each subsequent year. 
  Director Larson asked for clarification.  Is this 10 percentage points or 10%?  CAO Whitbeck shared it is 10 percentage points.  Director Larson shared that "10 percentage points" should be added to the SMART goal to minimize confusion. 
  Mid-Year Progress and Next Steps: 
  On the Spring 2023 Smarter Balanced Assessment, 29.1% of students met standard in English Language Arts, 19.2% of students met standard in Math, and 20.3% of students met standard in Science.
School teams implemented Interim Assessments this school year in order to support student preparation for SBA in the spring.
Ongoing Teaching and Learning work around inclusive practices and adoptions in Math (Elementary) and Science (Middle School) are intended to work towards a guaranteed and viable curriculum.
  Desired Outcome: Percentage of 3rd and 7th grade students meeting their stretch goal in iReady Reading and Math
  Goal: The number of 3rd and 7th-grade students reaching their stretch goal in reading and math will increase by 10 percentage points each year.
  Measure: i-READY ASSESSMENT
  Mid-Year Progress and Next Steps: 
        Who are the under-represented groups (federal subgroups) affected? What are the potential impacts?
      Does this policy, program, practice or decision worsen existing disparities or produce other unintended impacts?
      How have you intentionally involved stakeholders who are also members of the communities affected by this policy, practice or decision?
      What are the barriers to more equitable outcomes?
      How will you mitigate the negative impacts and address barriers?
  Director Larson commented that more focus is needed on students who are two (2) or more grade levels behind.  The focus needs to be on the students who are farthest away from educational standards and make sure they are meeting their stretch goals.  Additionally, all of the goals need to be focused on the students farthest away.  
  Race and Equity ToolKit
  Question 1 - Who are the under-represented groups (federal subgroups) affected? What are the potential impacts?
  Under-represented groups:  Reading and Math - All Grade Levels: Black, Hawaiian/Pacific Islander, LatinX 
  Potential Impact: Students who are 2 or more grade levels below in reading and math in the identified racial groups may not be able to meet grade-level standards at the end of the year.  
  Question 2 - Does this policy, program, practice or decision worsen existing disparities or produce other unintended impacts?
  Existing Disparities and Unintended Impact: 
  Current racial disparities at the end of the 2nd diagnostic for iReady are in alignment with past practice.
One positive outcome from the 2nd diagnostic window indicates that the previously observed trend of students falling further behind with each successive grade level was not observed during this window.
  Director Hoover asked what practices have helped shift that.  CAO Whitbeck shared having Race and Equity teams at our building, ongoing training (3rd year), and two (2) Race and Equity leaders at each school engaging with staff and students.   
  Dr. Deno shared that some of the systemic changes include: removing the noninclusion curriculum, keeping students in core classrooms, and attention to the belongingness for students.  Dr. Deno shared that in the elementary schools, this is the first year that we created scopes and sequences for all three (3) sets of materials that more align with the Common Core Standards.  
  Question 3 - How have you intentionally involved stakeholders who are also members of the communities affected by this policy, practice or decision?
  Involving Stakeholders
  Data Dives with individual principals, Chief Academic Officer, i-Ready staff, and OSPI Coach
School Teams can update SIP's, engaging their schools' Race and Equity Leaders staff, community, and student voices. 
  Director Larson suggested that students are asked "Do you think you are good in math"? and then follow that number, maybe have a supplemental curriculum as well.  This question should also be asked for Science.
  Question 4 - What are the barriers to more equitable outcomes?
  Barriers to Equitable Outcomes: 
  Inconsistent core instructional practices coupled with an overreliance on pull-out instructional services. 
Providing infrequent in-person coaching for teachers on effective instructional strategies.
  Director Larson asked why don't we have specialist math teachers at the elementary schools. Why not?  We have them at the secondary level. This is something that we need to look at to remove barriers.   
  Dr. Pedroza shared that we will have attendance data by race, and growth of students who attend regularly versus / no versus discipline for the April 9th Work Session.  This will be part of the Strategic Plan Engaged Learners presentation. 
    Question 5 - How will you mitigate the negative impacts and address barriers?
  Through the MTSS team, a menu of high-impact teaching strategies will be developed and serve as the centerpiece for professional learning focused on universal design for instruction (UDL) during the 2024-2025 school year. 
One example of this type of professional support is to provide supportive coaching to teachers on ways to differentiated instruction within the classroom, minimizing times that students receive instruction elsewhere.
  Jr. Representative Brewster shared students are more engaged with project-based learning for math.  They are more social.   
  Desired Outcome: Percentage of 9th-grade students who are on track to graduate
  Goal: The percentage of 9th-grade students who are on track to graduate will increase from 73.7% (21-22) to 78.7% in 2023-24 and increase 5% each subsequent year. 
  Mid-Year Progress and Next Steps: 
  At the end of the 22-23 school year, 63% of 9th graders were on track for graduation. 
At the end of 1st semester in the 23-24 school year, 63% of 9th graders passed all of their courses; a leading indicator of being on track to graduate at this point of the year. 
Foster High School is revamping its master scheduling process. 
Summer School will focus on credit recovery 
  Director Larson shared that he would like to see disproportionality as a number rather than a percentage. There needs to be a lot more depth, particularly on the race and equity issues.  We need to get deeper into the data and then come up with strategies.
  Some of the changes at the high school: 
  Reading Specialist - focused specifically on supporting night graders in their ELA classes
Two Multi-lingual coaches co-planning with teachers to support core subjects, math, science, history, and English to help support the students and build the levels of the teachers. 
9th-grade advisory teachers are the Math teachers who use their time during advisory check-in with math and solve problems of the week. 
After-school tutoring has been emphasized.  This is available for all 9th graders. 
Next year, they will be piloting a 9th-grade honors for all in their English Language Arts courses to raise the expectations and support. 
  Director Larson commented that we should start thinking about vertical systems, i.e. middle school to high school. It was suggested that there is a need to reevaluate annual survey questions, and perhaps add a pulse question for students weekly.  Dr. Pedroza shared that she had several suggestions for additional questions, i.e. belonging, safety, expectations, etc. Director Larson shared that we should have a more abbreviated, focused survey. It can be overwhelming for students with the amount current amount of questions. 
  Desired Outcome: Percentage of positive scores on staff ESS-High Standards and Expectations
  Measure: ESS (Educational Effectiveness Survey) Staff - High Standards and Expectations
  Goal: The percentage of staff who answer positively on the EES Survey in the area of High Standards and Expectations will increase from 66% in 2022-2023 to 71% in 2023-2024. 
  Mid-Year Progress and Next Steps: 
  Staff will take the CEE Survey in Spring of 2024. 
School leaders and Racial Equity Leads are beginning to meet jointly for the purpose of TSD’s movement toward becoming an Anti-Racist School District - addressing bias is a key lever.
  Key Teaching & Learning Next Steps
  Development of district-wide MTSS  & Inclusionary Practice Project understanding & implementation.
iReady goal setting for individual students based on their typical or stretch growth targets. 
Grant funding through OSPI’s program-specific grants to support continued planning and implementation for heritage language and dual language programming.
Grant funding through OSPI’s Title II-A to reimburse staff for receiving ELL or Bilingual Endorsements. 
Leadership support through Anti-Racist professional learning and coaching, in ongoing joint meetings with Race & Equity Lead Team and Principals. This includes race & equity as well as inclusion as core elements in all PD sessions.
  Director Simpson asked how many of our 12th graders are on track to graduate.  Dr. Deno shared we would have to pull the data to see how many are on track to graduate and how many are at risk.  Director Simpson shared that he would like to see that our 10th, 11th, and 12th graders are on track to graduate and to see what is our plan around that.    
  B. Social/Emotional/Mental Health-Students
  Stacy Lappin, Director of Program, and Aaron Norikane, Facilitator, presented to the Board.  
  We have been working with the Tukwila School District for five (5) years and recently changed our name from Sound Discipline to Belong Partners. 
  Highlights included: 
  Vision, Purpose and Approach 
We work in partnership with educators
Moving from Not Trauma-Aware to Trauma-Aware
Theory of Human Behavior - Belonging, Significance and Safety
Brain in the Hand exercise - brainstem, limbic, cortex 
Brain-informed approach to relationship - regulating the nervous system, relating (belonging), then reasoning 
Professional development, Data, Social Emotional Learning and Restorative Discipline
SWIS - each school has access to SWIS data - working on shifting the mindset around discipline referrals by using data and disproportionality in data. 
Mood Meter - naming feelings, teaching regulating, and building emotional language for students 
Referral Data  
  Director Larson asked how RULER fit into this.  Ms. Lappin shared that RULER is the social-emotional learning curriculum that Tukwila has used for the last five years.  Although we are not ruler trainers, we are skilled at working with adults on implementing social-emotional learning and working with adults and the idea behind RULER is to train a team of educators, and then they're leading it in their schools.    
  Using Data to Improve School Climate: 
  Data Team Leadership: Showalter Discipline Referral Data showed hallways and transition times were challenging for students. 
Sample Tier 1 Strategies:  Transition routine at the end and beginning of the period, regulation practices for adults and students, play music during passing periods. 
Result: Halls feel calmer to staff and students – Data shows less referrals 
Next steps: Increase student's voice -  engage them in selecting songs
  Showalter Discipline Data Comparision - 22-23 to 23-24
  The total number of referrals from September through February is approximately the same, with a very slight decrease.  What is different is last year there was a higher number of majors in SWIS.  Majors has been changed to "adinistrator managed" which are those bigger behaviors.  There was a significantly larger number of those last year as compared to this year.  Even though if you look at the total number of referrals, we didn't decrease it really at all.   We have more things that are happening in our classrooms, what we would consider more in skyward as referrals.  In SWIS, they are referred to as "minors" or "educator-managed".  So this is a shift in how young people are showing up with less of those big behaviors.  These are the things that happen in the classroom that are less urgent and allow students to stay in class and have a conversation with a counselor or a behavior interventionist. Showalter staff have worked hard at paying attention to their data, looking at patterns, and making changes. 
    Director Larson asked does "staff managed" mean it was handled in the classroom.  Ms. Lappin shared that this is correct. Staff is still marking it to help show patterns, etc.   Director Larson asked how many of these are in the category of disrespect, defiance, etc.  Ms. Lapping shared that they have access to all of that data, and they are looking at the data to see when it is happening, where it is happening, who's it happening with, the race of students, etc. 
  Director Simpson asked are you in front of staff and students, how often is that, and what is the cost of Belong Partners to the district?  Ms. Lappin shared that we work with the adults, so we don't directly work with the young people. Our service is really about working with staff, multiple sessions of professional development for every school, and working with different teams, i.e. data teams, RULER teams, principal coaching, etc.  Each school has two (2) facilitators who work directly with them and have been with them over the journey.  The contract for 23-24 was $200,000.  The facilitators are in the schools twice a month, approximately 5-8 hours per school each month.  
  5. Adjourn
  A. Adjourn
  Director Larson made a motion to adjourn the Board Work Session.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
  President Hoover adjourned the Work Session at 4:53 p.m. 