  Regular Board Meeting - Virtual via Zoom & In-Person (6:00 p.m.) (Tuesday, September 10, 2024)
Generated by Deborah Kohr on Monday, September 9, 2024
      1. Call To Order
  A. Call to Order
  President Hoover called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
  B. Roll Call
  President Hoover called Roll Call. 
  Board Directors Present: 
President Hoover
Director Larson 
Director Simpson 
Director Kruller 
  Board Directors Absent: 
Director Proctor
  Student Representative Present: 
None 
  Student Representative Absent: 
Alex Brewster
  C. Welcome Guests
  President Hoover welcomed guests. 
  Guests: 
Dr. Concie Pedroza
Deborah Kohr 
Courtney Martinez
Duane Meyer
Scott Whitbeck 
Amy Fleming 
Naomi Byrdo 
Dr. Jessica Proctor 
Andra Maughan
Aaron Draganov
Gabriel Gutierrez
Hani Nur
Robin Allsopp
Pam Bila
Phone-in Caller 
Danielle Eastman 
  D. Land Recognition - Director Kruller
  Director Kruller conducted the Land Acknowledgement. 
  E. Flag Salute
  President Hoover led the room in the Pledge of Allegiance. 
  2. Approval of Agenda
  A. Approval of the Agenda for the September 10, 2024 Regular Board Meeting

Director Larson made a motion to approve the Agenda for the September 10, 2023 Regular Board Meeting. 
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  3. Public Comment
  A. Public Comment
  President Hoover called for Public Comment.
  There were no public comments. 
  4. Board Discussion
  A. Board Goals
  President Hoover shared the Board Goals document.  We had our Board goals set up to talk about at the last meeting, however, due to the fact that we didn't have all Board members present.  It is important that all Board members are present as we establish our final goals.  Although not all Board members are present today, we can still have some discussion regarding goals.  We will also move this item to the September 24th Board Agenda.  During our Special Meeting in June, the Board decided that we would set three goals which included focusing on anti-racist practices, community engagement, and fiscal management/responsibility in particular how we as a Board are ensuring that controls are being put in place to support and prevent future binding conditions.
  Under Goal #1 of Anti-Racist practices, two of the four action items have been completed. For Goals #3 and #4, we need to think about our Norms of Engagement, particularly when items come up in our conversations that might be an unintended microaggression, or unintentionally perpetuating antiblack norms, etc. that are not aligned with anti-racist values and how do we disrupt that in the moment. We will work with PSESD to help us formulate what those will look like.  Once approved, these will replace the Courageous Conversation norms that we used to use. 
  Director Larson shared several comments: 
Embedding Anti-Racism (Statement) into the District's Strategic Plan, School Improvement Plans (SIPs), Race and Equity Policy, Board Operating Agreements, and other guiding documents.  
This needs to be "one" within the core operating documents of the District. 
Board Goals need to be included in the Board Operating Agreement
  President Hoover shared that Director Larson's suggestions should be included as "action" items in the Board Goals document. 
  Superintendent Pedroza shared that we should have the updated Race & Equity policy ready for first review and adoption in October. 
  There was discussion on incorporating anti-racism into staff evaluations using SMARTIE goals and embedding these principles into professional development. 
  Director Simpson shared that he will add action items under Goal #2.  
  President Hoover shared that this item will be added to the September 24th Agenda for review and finalization.  
    B. WSSDA General Assembly Voting
  Director Larson shared that the WSSDA General Assembly is happening next week. Anyone is welcome to attend either in person or virtual.  If you have any legislative issues you want to see added, connect with Director Larson 
  After the voting process, the next step is the prioritization which will be in October.  Director Larson will bring back the prioritized list for our Board to rank their top 10 items.  
    President Hoover took a moment to thank everyone for the amazing start to the school year. They shared that they had the opportunity to attend the All Staff Kick-Off event.  Just like last year's kick-off, it had this energy that can't be replicated.  There was excitement to be there in this collectiveness and they wanted to again say thank you. They shared that the start of any new year involves a lot of long hours and days and they are grateful for everyone here in this room and every person in every building doing the hard work to serve our kids. 
    5. Questions Only - Presentations
  A. Enrollment and Attendance - 4th Day Count
    B. Instructional Minutes - Final Calendar
    C. Annual Report - Sexual Harassment Prohibited per Policies 3205 and 5011
  Director Larson commented on the evaluation of Train the Trainer.  He noticed there was a component to make some of the protocols a little more aware.  He shared that his only concern was to make sure that if any incident came up students felt safe to report it.  Hopefully, there is a safe space where students can go to report an incident.   He shared that he was glad to see that this is being re-evaluated and looking at additional options for reporting. 
  President Hoover shared that one of the biggest themes that was heard when they were on the Safety and Inclusion task force was not knowing how to report and what they could report. We need to make sure that when a person is reporting we need to make sure they feel valued, heard, and safe.  Additionally, another lengthy discussion was around the workload/capacity of the Title X Coordinator as they do have other workload responsibilities.  Has there been any additional thoughts or movements on ensuring that this person is set up for success in this role?    Executive Director Draganov shared that there have been several discussions on this and as they are looking for alternative ways for students to report, they are also making sure systems are in place to ensure none of the reports are missed.  Additionally, this position works in collaboration with Human Resources on any report that is received.  Additionally, the Building Administrators will be the first party to investigate the reports. 
  Director Kruller asked if there was any follow-up/feedback on the effectiveness of the current reporting system/process.  Executive Director Draganov shared there is a built-in comment feature and we have received some great feedback.  The HR team does reach out if we have any additional questions. Feedback received has been to make it more engaging instead of just "clicking" responses.  This feedback has been shared with the developers and they have made improvements this year. 
  President Hoover commented that the restorative practices and healing circles would increase staff skills and knowledge which would help students feel heard, valued, and safe to report. 
  Director Larson asked when a student reports, are the parents informed? What are the legal requirements?  Executive Director Draganov will need to research and will follow up with the Board. Currently, it is a practice that we do, but not certain that it is a legal requirement.    
    D. Interscholastic Activities Report per Policy 2151
  Director Larson shared that when people hear interscholatic activities, they think of Athletics, but it's actually more than that.  Those additional activities would include robotics, environmental sciences, etc.  We need to keep these on the radar so that we can fund them, celebrate, etc. 
  Superintendent Pedroza shared that Policy 2151 will need to be updated to include "additional activities" that are not under WIAA. The updated policy will be included on the October 22nd Board Agenda along with the updated additional activities list as requested by Director Larson. 
  President Hoover asked how are we ensuring that we are supporting our gender/trans students. They want to make sure we are providing opportunities for everyone.  They know that we may have a policy, but what does that look like in practice as far as young people feeling that belongingness and ability to be able to feel comfortable in a sport?  
  E. Public Records Transparency Report per Policy 6030
    F. Staffing Report - 23-24
  Director Larson shared that he recognized that staff diversity is moving in a positive direction. 
  Director Kruller asked with the staff reductions this year, did we lose a big percentage in that aspect?  Executive Director Draganov shared that we are currently staffed at 187 out of 200 teachers.  We have also had some resignations, so those are the positions we are hiring back.  
  President Hoover acknowledged the impact and the difficulty of sitting through many exit interviews. They thanked Mr. Draganov and shared that they have heard, often how kind and thoughtful he is. 
  G. Engagement Plan
  Director Larson thanked the staff for creating the engagement plan.  He shared that he appreciated the specific inclusion of parents.  He shared that we need a minimum of two parents, as it is very intimidating coming into this space. This is the same situation for students. He emphasized that we need to include Race & Equity members in the process and reach out to other groups for participation.  
  It was suggested to keep the information high level and to communicate clearly regarding the current budget, and why we need more funding from the state.  
  Director Kruller commented that the time and date needed to be included.  President Hoover shared that the first meeting should include education on the budget, i.e. Budget 101.  They shared we should also consider before and after-school partners for child care during these meetings, usually funded through the pTS, and having food available.  Director Larson added that translators and community liaisons would be extremely helpful. 
  H. CEE Student, Parent, and Staff Survey - Data & Analysis
  Director Larson commented that every year the question "most students are respectful to others" is a really low one that we have not been able to crack.  We need to look at street data.  What is at the core of this?  Belong Partners may have some strategies to work on this.  We need to establish a culture in which students feel respected by each other.  Another question is "another one: do you see yourself in the curriculum?"  This is another question we need to look at.  
  President Hoover shared that when they saw this data, the first question was what opportunities are we creating, whether that is teachers in the classroom or just as a whole building, of really creating opportunities where young people can spend time just getting to know each other, building rapport, and community with each other.  If we are so focused on instructional minutes, building community can be instructional minutes.  Are the lessons engaging for students?  Additionally, we need to add some high-level definitions around respect. Respect can look really different for different cultures, etc.  
  I. Early Learning Calendar - 24-25
    6. Presentations
  There were no presentations. 
  7. Action Items
  A. Approval of TEA-CERT and TEA-ESP 2024-2026 Contracts
  Director Larson made a motion to approve TEA-CERT and TEA-ESP 2024-2026 Contracts. 
Director Kruller seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  Director Larson thanked everyone for their hard work.  We need to use the next two (2) years to go to Olympia and advocate for more funding based on student needs.   
  President Hoover acknowledged and thanked the administration staff and our TEA partners for their time, effort, and hard work to get to an agreement on this contract. 
  8. Public Comment
  A. Public Comment
  President Hoover called for Public Comment. 
  There were no public comments. 
  9. Executive Session
  There were no items for Executive Session. 
  10. Adjourn
  A. Adjourn
  Director Larson made a motion to adjourn the Board meeting. 
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  President Hoover adjourned the meeting at 7:05 pm. 