  Special Board Meeting via Zoom (5:30 p.m.) (Tuesday, March 19, 2024)
Generated by Deborah Kohr on Tuesday, March 19, 2024
  1. Call To Order
  A. Call to Order
  President Hoover called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m. 
  B. Roll Call
  President Hoover called Roll Call. 
  Board Directors Present: 
Director Larson 
Director Simpson 
Director Hoover 
Director Proctor 
  Board Directors Absent: 
None 
  Student Representative Present: 
Alex Brewster
  Student Representative Absent: 
Dennis Nguyen
    C. Welcome Guests
  President Hoover welcomed guests. 
  Guests: 
Deborah Kohr 
T. Hang
K. Kruller
Joe Camacho
Robin Allsopp
Edna Morris 
Community Member
  2. Approval of Agenda
  A. Approval of Agenda
  Director Larson made a motion to approve the Agenda. 
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  3. Discussion
  A. Director District 2 Interview - T. Hang
  The Board of Directors conducted the interview of Teresa Hang for the District 2 Director open position.
  B. Director District 2 Interview - K. Kruller
  The Board of Directors conducted the interview of Kate Kruller for the District 2 Director open position.
  4. Executive Session
  President Hoover recessed the meeting to Executive Session at 6:36 p.m. for approximately 30 minutes to evaluate the qualifications of a candidate for appointment to elective office per RCW 42.30.110 (h).
  A. Executive Session - To evaluate the qualifications of a candidate for appointment to elective office per RCW 42.30.110 (h)
  President Hoover called the regular meeting back to order at  7:07 p.m. There was no action.   
  President Hoover called Roll Call. 
  Board Directors Present:
President Hoover 
Director Simpson
Director Larson 
Director Proctor 
  Board Directors Absent:
None
  5. Adjourn
  A. Adjourn
  Director Larson made a motion to adjourn the Special Board Meeting. 
Director Proctor seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  President Hoover adjourned the meeting at 7:08 p.m. 
   