  Regular Board Meeting - Virtual via Zoom & In-Person (6:00 p.m.) (Tuesday, March 26, 2024)
Generated by Deborah Kohr on Monday, March 25, 2024
  1. Call To Order
  A. Call to Order
  President Hoover called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. 
  B. Roll Call
  President Hoover called Roll Call. 
  Board Directors Present: 
President Hoover 
Director Larson 
Director Simpson
Director Proctor 
  Board Directors Absent: 
None 
  Student Representatives Present: 
Alex Brewster
  Student Representatives Absent: 
Dennis Nguyen
  C. Welcome Guests
  President Hoover welcomed guests. 
  Guests: 
Dr. Concie Pedroza
Deborah Kohr 
Debbie Aldous
Nick Brown
Aaron Draganov
Amy Fleming
Scott Whitbeck 
Andra Maughan 
Naomi Byrdo
Duane Meyer
Debbie Aldous 
Karen Korol 
Lisa Ring 
Community 
Phone in Caller 
Silvia Dicus Mora
Pat Larson 
Kate Kruller 
Riley Haggard
Ian Sample 
Lintrail Duke
Sarah Hendrickson
Armen Papyan
Sharon Nikota
Sheila Coppola
Lisa Shipman
Liliu Aleaga
Michael Croyle
Angela Meyer
Carinne Woodfolk 
Tasolo Simpson 
Todd Best 
Amanda Foster
Brandon Eastman
Danielle Eastman 
Joe Camacho 
Nick Brown
Abigail TAbason 
Robin Allsopp
Allan Ekberg
Shiela Coppola 
Jessica Othman
  D. Welcome Message - President Hoover
  President Hoover shared the Community Agreements. 
  E. Land Recognition - President Hoover
  President Hoover conducted the Land Acknowledgement. 
  F. Flag Salute
  President Hoover led the room in the Pledge of Allegiance. 
  2. Approval of Agenda
  A. Approval of the Agenda for the March 26, 2024 Regular Board Meeting
  Director Simpson made a motion to approve the Agenda for the March 26, 2024 Regular Board Meeting.
Director Larson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried.  
  3. Host School Welcome
  A. Host School Welcome - Tukwila Elementary 
  Principal Nur welcomed the Board of Directors. 
  A student video was shared.  The students in the video shared various robotics projects they were working on, along with information on what the project was and the steps they took to complete the project. 
  Principal Nur shared a presentation with the Board.  Highlights included: 
  Tukwila Elementary - multiple languages are spoken, collaborative hands-on learning, different ways of showing learning, celebrate and support each other, practice cross-subject learning, celebrate spirit days, inclusive in all spaces, creative and tech-savvy, athletic, excited and engaged, and build character traits. 
i-Ready Reading Growth - The original goal was for a 25% increase school-wide.  The winter data shows as a school, a 60% growth in overall reading comprehension goal. 
i-Ready Math Growth - Our original goal was for a 25% increase school-wide.  Our winter data shows that as a school, we have over 160% growth increase in our overall math numbers and operations goal.  
Multi-lingual students - 15% difference in growth between our MLL students and our non-MLL students. There was a 5% growth between our MLL Special Education and general education students.  
What is working: monthly PLC connection, Building Core Instruction PD's, data analysis, Scope and Sequence Development. focused on building core instruction this year. 
  Director Larson shared the state has WSIF which shows data on growth.  This last year, Tukwila Elementary improved significantly.  Congratulations to you and your staff on this achievement.  This isn't easy to do.  
  4. Board Recognition
  A. Citizen's Levy Committee
  Dr. Pedroza wanted to take a moment to extend a heartfelt thank you to the members of the Yes Committee for their incredible dedication to our recent levy measure.  Paul & Kathy Coblenz, Sarah Vallieu, Katrina Dohn, Allan Ekberg, Armen Papyan, Edna Morris, Jonathan Joseph, Kate Kruller, Sheila & Rick Coppola, Sharon Nakata, Madison Martin, Riley Haggard, and Pat Larson – your hard work and commitment were pivotal in the success of our campaign. I also want to thank TSD staff, teachers, and union leaders for their full support with donations and volunteering in support of the Yes Committee. Your unwavering support ensures that we can continue providing the quality education our students deserve. On behalf of the entire Tukwila School District community, thank you for your outstanding contributions.
  President Hoover thanked the committee for their tireless work and advocacy for our students.  
  5. Public Comment
  A. Public Comment
  President Hoover called for Public Comment. 
  Edna Morris - Community Member - When the school board was faced with the task of finding a superintendent to meet the needs of the TSD, we were aware it needed to be someone willing to make the necessary changes that had held us back. Changes that would allow for growth and would provide an environment in which both students and staff could flourish and have the educational opportunities they deserve. We would need a leader willing to surround themselves with other strong, insightful people.  A leader willing to make tough decisions to allow TSD to thrive.  When interviewing Dr. Pedroza, she reflected several times about how "hard" situations were, which caused me to hold reservations about her being the leader we were in need of.  If she felt situations were "hard", was she up for the serious challenges we knew would continue to come and the needs that would be imperative to address?  After working with Dr. Pedroza, I have come to realize she recognizes challenges and yes, they are "hard" but they are challenges that she is extremely capable of handling and finding solutions that best meet the needs of the district.  She involves her staff in decision-making, and she truly listens and responds to the needs of the district and individuals.  She nurtures an environment in which people feel valued. we, as a district, are fortunate to have Dr. Pedroza as a leader.  She has proved herself to be someone who definitely does not shy away from "hard". She is resilient, a progressive thinker, proactive, and an asset to TSD.  
  Danielle Eastman - Parent - Shared concerns on safety and security. Why is the front entrance secure, but not the outdoor recess areas?  There have been occupied tents in the tree line while students are playing.  background checks are necessary to work and volunteer inside, while strangers are walking among the children and halls and entering the building where other students are and the restrooms are right there.  We need to figure out some solutions such as signage, and fencing to deter people from freely walking around outside with the children and prevent them from breaching the inside of the building.  I would also like to know what is the process to get fire ladders for the thirteen classrooms that are upstairs. At this time there is no way to access in case of a fire except for the stairs.  In reading OSPI's website, there is a possibility of grants available for this.   
  President Hoover requested Superintendent Pedroza to follow up.   
  Jessica Othman- PTA President - Thorndyke Elementary - I went into the last board meeting with a few questions only to end up leaving with way more. I know that the District is currently going through a difficult time and I in no way expect concrete answers right away. However, I feel the questions that I brought forth to you all  are important not only to me but to the rest of the families that reside in our school district. They need answers, yes, but they also need a voice, and I intend to try and be that for them as well as I can. Below you will find the list of questions I presented at the most recent Board Meeting 1. Budget Philosophy number eight states, “  reductions will be made first to the programs in which there is clear evidence that they are not as effective in supporting the District mission statement as other programs.” What will be the determining factor in deciding which programs will be deemed “not as effective?” WIll we be notified in advance when these reductions are going to be made and which programs these will be. If so, what will the timeframe be between announcing the reductions and putting them into place? 2. Number nine states, “partial reductions of the programs will be made, but if analysis shows the reduction will render the program ineffective, fully removing or restoring the program will be considered.” How will the programs that get reduced/cut be decided and what will the timeframe be in deciding that the reduction rendered the program ineffective? 3. Number 11 states, “partial reduction of the programs will be made in areas with less impact on students who do not speak English as a native language.” What  areas will these be exactly? How will these reductions be decided? Will the affected families be involved in any of these decisions and if so, how? My concerns stem from not only having a student enrolled in this district, but from working closely with families and the community as well. I love this town and the community that resides here. My goal is to help create a safe, nurturing, and inclusive space for everyone. Thank you for giving me a platform to share my thoughts. I would love to help in any way I can, big or small. I look forward to hearing from you.

Director Simpson requested that the questions asked during Ms. Othman's public comments is emailed to the Board. 
  Brandon Eastman - Parent - Thank you to Dr. Pedroza for working on the wi fi.  There has been a lot of work to resolve this.  We are not quite there yet, but we are close. Thank you to the Tech Services department as well.  Tukwila is a small town, but right next to Seattle, and more diverse than small towns.  At one of the previous meetings, regarding after-school programming, there were comments that schools are responsible from bell to bell.  No one I have talked to feels like that is adequate for what the school is in this community.   The decisions that are being made with the budget, I hope that those considerations, these choices that are made impact families and the community.   At the last meeting at Thorndyke Elementary there was an issue with substitute teachers.  Director Proctor mentioned morale issues.  One solution is having people from the administration building who have teaching certificates step in and teach to fill some of those spots.  
  6. Reports
  A. Student Representatives Report
  Jr. Representative Brewster shared that they reviewed student advisory applicants, and have set up a pre-planning meeting.  The first Superintendent Student Advisory Committee meeting is scheduled for April 3rd at 3:30 p.m. via Zoom. 
  B. Superintendent Report
  Dr. Pedroza shared several updates.  This month has been full of activity throughout the district.  Thank you to the parents and staff who engaged in our parent-teacher conferences early in the month.  There is so much work that happens behind the scenes to get ready and I know that the families do appreciate connecting with the staff in our schools.  I have some additional updates for the community.
  Building Closure Update:  We have now word, that the district administration building is nearing completion for us to move in; this will be a phase-in approach and we expect that everyone will be in place by the end of April. 
  Health Update: Odessa Brown once again partnered with the district and we held our vaccination clinic last Thursday, where 111 vaccinations were given to children.  Thank you, Odessa Brown and Foster High School, for supporting the clinic. 
  Other events:
Gratitude to our Incredible Education Support Staff, early in the month it was wonderful to see all of the ways staff showed up for our dedicated staff.
Dual Language Enrollment:  Dual Language Lottery was held for the incoming Kindergarten class, parents were notified, and we have a waitlist.  Reminder if you have students coming to Tukwila School District this year and/or next year, you can enroll now in our schools or district office. 
After last month’s vote for SROs, Principal Parker, Principal Christopher, and Chief Drever met to plan the conversations and planning for schools.  This will be ongoing in preparation for a soft start in spring in readiness for the 24-25 school year.   
Cascade View is producing a Disney Play - The Lion King at the Foster High School PAC on Wednesday, April 3rd at 7 pm.  All are welcome!!!
Families please note that the end of the trimester is April 1 and Spring Break begins the following week from April 8-12.  School will resume on April 15. 
Thank you to the Cascade View PTO and the district’s Parent Advisory Committee for greeting me so warmly, talking with me about the budget, giving me history, and asking questions.  It has been wonderful getting to know you. I am looking forward to other parent events this year. 
Kudos to our Family Liaisons who have planned several parent events this year to support our newest families to the community.  It has been great to see them support families in what families need to learn to navigate the school system. 
  Community and staff – please sign up on our Tukwila SD Facebook and Instagram where we publish all the good things happening in our district. Also, check out our webpage. 
  Director Larson asked for dropout data. Dr. Pedroza will get the data and follow up with the Board.  
  C. Board of Directors Report
  Director Larson shared several updates.  The Foster High School robotics team competed in the regional competition at Auburn High School and finished in the middle range.  Statewide, there are only about 10% of high schools that have robotics teams that compete in this program. He reported that he and Dr. Pedroza attended the first Road Map Project meeting.   The Foster History department had a session.  The assignment for the students was to take an event, i.e. post-civil war, WWII,  and do research and a presentation on it.  It was great that the students had this opportunity to research and present on history as compared to just reading a book.    Director Larson commented on WSIF data.  It's not just about proficiency on the test, but growth, and includes attendance, dual credits, and graduation rate.  This went dormant during COVID-19 but is back now.  About 25% of schools in the state are in "improvement" status.  If we want improvement, then the state needs to provide more resources.  One of the measures is attendance.  The regular attendance rates at Tukwila Elementary for 22-23 was about 94% while the other schools were 60-70%.
  Director Proctor reported the vaccination clinic went well with 111 vaccinations and 34 students. He reported at Thorndyke Elementary, 150th is painted yellow so when students get out of school, there is no in out or out.  We need to work together and find a solution.   
  Director Hoover reported on several items. The interviews for District 2 Board Director have been conducted.  We should have a decision on an appointment by next week.  They and Dr. Pedroza are working on getting Coffee with Concie and Carlee scheduled. This would create more consistent, casual ways to connect with people.   They shared, regarding the budget, that what we are going through is hard, complicated, and nuanced. Everyone is feeling the weight and impact of the decisions that are having to be made right now. We all need to try to hold space for our leaders, staff, and community, and they are open to connecting with anyone.   
  Director Simpson reported on visiting Thorndyke to chat with the Principal and parents about the champions contract. There were parents who could afford the cost, while others were not.  At this time it is business as usual.   
  D. Legislative Update
  Director Larson shared several updates. (report attached).  The short session is done. The next step is Governor Insee signing the bills.  Highlights included:
  More money for paraprofessionals
Increased SPED cap to 16%
Funding Road Map Districts for Student Civil Engagement 
AI task force established- WSSDA will be creating a model policy 
Electric buses - monies are starting to become available for infrastructure and grants.  We need to start thinking about that. 
Inclusive learning standards and instructional materials passed
Increase of MSOC by 2%
Senate Budget Bill
Transportation correction funding  
  7. Consent Agenda
  A. Approval of Minutes from the March 19, 2024 Special Board Meeting
  B. Approval of Minutes from the March 12, 2024 Board Work Session
  C. Approval of Minutes from the February 27, 2024 Board Meeting
  D. Approval of Warrants (General Fund, Capital Projects Fund, Associated Student Body Program Fund, Vouchers and Debt Service payments) (REVIEWED BY DIRECTORS PROCTOR and SIMPSON)
  Director Simpson made a motion to approve the Consent Agenda. 
Director Larson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  8. Board Discussion
  A. Board Meetings 
  President Hoover provided a history of past board meetings and wanted to check in with the Board in regard to their thoughts on the new board meeting schedule.  Previously, we had two (2) regular Board meetings a month that would typically last two to three hours.  Currently, we have a one Board Work Session and one regular Board Meeting.  It has been noticed that because of this change, our regular Board meetings typically last three hours due to the amount of presentations and reports at the meeting.  
  There is a suggestion of extending the Board Work Session by one (1) hour.  This would allow for additional items, i.e. presentations, etc. to be discussed at the work session instead of the regular Board Meeting.  The Board Work Session will be extended to 6:00 P.M. 
  Director Larson shared that extending the work session would be fine.  He commented that he does not believe that the longer meeting time is caused by the shift in meetings, but is due to the additional reports, etc. requested by the Board. 
  Director Simpson shared Director Larson's view as long as we are using that time to resolve issues.   
  President Hoover shared that there are some things that the Board can do too, such as instead of spending a lot of time dialoguing about an item, we could essentially request the Superintendent to report on progress and what kind of objectives or outcomes have been taken from our Work Session.   
  Director Simpson shared that in the report out, we can include who is accountable, the timeline for when the Board will hear back on the topic, etc. He shared he would like a format of who is responsible, a timeline and when, and what format will this be sent to the Board, i.e. email, Monday memo, or in a meeting. 
  The following were Board requests:
  Action items need concrete accountability points
Any topics that a Board Director wants added to the meeting agenda, will be sent to the President of the Board before the next Agenda Review Meeting. 
Follow-up Format - Who is responsible, a timeline of when the Board will receive information, and how will the information be given to the Board. 
The Board will need to determine what information they need, and how they want to receive that information. 
  B. Board Budget Priorities and Board Budget Philosophy
  President Hoover shared that as part of our financial binding conditions, we are required to provide ranked Board Priorities and a final Board Budget Philosophy document. 
  Director Larson shared that ranking priorities is not feasible and is more of an either-or.  We need to be able to balance various priorities.  
  For future budget decisions, the Board requested that before a decision is made about a program, it comes to the Board for approval. 
  For the April 9th Work Session:
  Each Director will pick their top 6 priorities to share at the next work session. 
Director Larson will contact OSPI and PSESD to get more information on the definition of "ranked" Board Priorities. 
  9. Questions Only - Presentations
  A. Monthly Financial Statement - February 2024
  Director Larson shared that he would like to see what percentage of students are absent more than twice a month.  Can that be added to this report?  Amy Fleming, CFO, shared that she would try to get that information for future reporting. 
  President Hoover shared that they noticed that there is a steady decline in our fund balance since September of last year.  Is this due to the district having to "catch up" with some unpaid items?  CFO Fleming shared that was part of it.  The other piece is the way that we are funded.  Apportionment isn't received every single month, so we have kind of a bump down, and then a bump up with property taxes in October and April.  So the ending funding balance will continue to flow up and down.  
  B. 2023-2024 Financial Forecast
  CFO Fleming shared that we are using a new reporting format.  ESD 113 has been using this format for several years.  OSPI and the ESDs have been talking about how this format needs to be incorporated into all of the school districts around the state.  She shared that it will most likely be this model or something very similar.  If the Board is okay with this format, we will start using this moving forward.   
  C. 2023-2024 Budget Extension - Per OSPI
  CFO Fleming shared that we have submitted Safety Net for reimbursement for $1,000,000.  The request is never 100% reimbursed, however, if we receive $800,000 we will be happy.  This will be for this current year.  The Special Education budget for this year was inadequate, so that was a large piece of the work for submitting a reimbursement request.   
  D. Resolution No 947 - Budget Extension - For Review
    10. Presentations
  A. Union Presentation
  Nick Brown shared the following statement.   Tukwila families and educators agree that our students deserve the best education that helps them grow and thrive.Tukwila Education Association members, both classified and certificated, have dedicated their careers to teaching and supporting the diverse  student population and families of the Tukwila community. But decades of underfunding by the state as well as a lack of financial accountability and oversight from this Board is not only getting in the way of students’ learning, but also harming the staff and community as a whole. While we have new  leadership in the district and are hopeful for positive change, we cannot ignore that the financial situation the district is currently facing is not new, but created over years of overspending and fiscal irresponsibility. Due to this, the district is now faced with making detrimental cuts to the programs,  supports and staff that this community relies on. We cannot ignore the harm that these drastic changes will have on everyone. Every program cut is a support no longer available, every staff member lost is a trusted adult who will no longer be here to support our students. We need the board to put the students' needs first and recognize the harm that we will all be feeling over the next couple years. Moving forward, TEA Members ask you to remember 1) To MEET STUDENT NEEDS FIRST. We should never have to cut the teaching and services students need, but if we must, positions like administration that are far from classrooms should be cut before the teaching and supports students rely on daily. 2) And that THESE CUTS HURT. What you see as numbers on paper our students see as the people they rely on, their trusted supporters and faces they can count on to be there for them every day. It’s sacrificing class sizes that are already too big for even bigger ones which means giving each student even less of our time and attention. It’s devastating. The district needs to do everything possible to find creative solutions and minimize the impact. Our CALL TO ACTION. We wouldn’t have to be cutting needed supports for our students if the state provided adequate funding for public education, and this Board practiced fiscal responsibility over the years. Join us in calling on lawmakers to fully fund our public education system and for the Board  to make drastic changes to their spending and oversight of the funds meant for our students.
  TEA President Aldous asked if the Board had any questions?  
  President Hoover asked what are some of the solutions that you recommend?  President Aldous shared that in our statement we see this as an issue of funding from the state for the most part, along with some bad fiscal practices in the past.  We do understand that it is time to right the shipt but we really want the cuts to be as far away from students as possible.  We are willing to work alongside you to go to the state and advocate together. Director Larson shared that we need ample and equitable funding 
  11. Action Items
  A. Approval of Resolution No. 946 - Approval of WIAA Membership Renewal
  Director Larson made a motion to approve Resolution No. 946 - Approval of WIAA Membership Renewal.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  Director Larson asked what league are we in this year?  Dr. Pedroza will follow up.  
  B. Approval of Resolution No. 948 - Appointment of Superintendent Dr. Concie Pedroza
  Director Larson made a motion to approve Resolution No. 948 - Appointment of Superintendent Dr. Concie Pedroza.
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  C. Approval of Highly Capable Plan
  Director Larson made a motion to approve the Highly Capable Plan.
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried.  
  D. Approval of CTE Courses
  Director Larson made a motion to approve CTE Courses. 
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried.  
    Director Larson asked if the financial algebra course was being offered this year.  Mr. Baker shared that it was being offered.  Director Larson commented that it was more like financial math, i.e. balancing checkbook, etc.  Mr. Baker confirmed that was correct.  
  President Hoover confirmed that CTE is a fund on its own.  If a student is in a CTE class, how does that impact BEA?  Or does it not impact BEA?  Mr. Baker shared that for each CTE class, we receive 1.2 for funding. and for a BEA class, you get 1.0 for funding.  When you have a teacher move to teach CTE classes, you are freeing up BEA monies.   President Hoover asked if we have a CTE class with only a few students, is that a class that is the most fiscally responsible for us to hold at the moment?   Mr. Baker shared that if we have 23 students in a CTE class that teacher's salary is paid.  We try to get an average amount of students in each class.  There are a few classes that we can have that many students in due to safety, etc. 
  Director Larson shared that we get more per-student funding in CTE, including MSOC, etc.  Additionally, we are trying to get CTE money into Showalter Middle School. 
  President Hoover shared that is a little frustrating when the Board is put into a bind to approve something because it is due to whoever or whatever a few days after our meeting.  In the future, it would be appreciated if the Board could have a month prior to the due date.  That way we would have more time to discuss and have more information if needed so that we can make an informed decision.  
   E. Approval of Asset Prevention Program
  Director Larson made a motion to approve the Asset Prevention Program. 
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried.  
  Liliana Cardenas, Director of Maintenance, Operations and Capital Projects shared that she would provide a full report to the Board at a future meeting as to what occurred and what's next regarding the water leak in the Administration building. 
    F. Approval of WSSDA Position Proposals
  Director Larson made a motion to approve the WSSDA Position Proposals. 
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried.  
  G. Approval of K-5 Math Curriculum
  Director Larson made a motion to approve the K-5 Math Curriculum.
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  12. Public Comment
  A. Public Comment
  President Hoover called for Public Comments. 
  There were no public comments. 
  13. Executive Session
   There were no items for Executive Session. 
  14. Adjourn
  A. Adjourn
  Director Larson made a motion to adjourn the Regular Board Meeting. 
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
  President Hoover adjourned the meeting at 9:00 p.m.