  Regular Board Meeting - Virtual via Zoom & In-Person (6:30 p.m.) (Tuesday, April 23, 2024)
Generated by Deborah Kohr on Monday, April 22, 2024
  1. Call To Order
  A. Call to Order
  President Hoover called the meeting to order at 6:31 p.m. 
  B. Roll Call
  President Hoover called Roll Call. 
  Board Directors Present: 
President Hoover 
Director Larson 
Director Simpson 
Director Proctor
  Board Directors Absent: 
None 
  Student Representatives Present: 
Jr. Rep. Alex Brewster 
  Student Representatives Absent: 
Sr. Rep. Dennis Nguyen 
  C. Welcome Guests
  President Hoover welcomed guests. 
  Guests: 
Dr. Concie Pedroza
Deborah Kohr 
Brittany 
Community
Courtney Martinez 
Curran Nielsen 
Dian Hood
Fiona Macy 
Gail O'Bannon 
Jaclyn 
Kristin Theobald 
Mary Rusk 
Maureen Parson 
Michelle Zhong
Morgan Music 
Mrs. Newton 
Silvia Dicus Mora 
Susie Kelly 
Teresa Ramirez 
Carrine Woodfolk
Heather Wallendahl 
Joe Camacho
Julia Randall 
Phone In Caller 
Ashley 
C
Erin Herda 
Grace Saturnino 
Hani Nur 
Heather Wallendahl 
Kristin Theobald
Kristy 
Laura Linde
Mary Rusk 
Michelle Zhong 
Morgan Music 
Mrs. Flor 
Nick Brown 
Pam Bila 
Sally Jerome
Theren Hays 
Sue Lane 
Robin Allsopp
Andra Maughan
Amy Fleming 
Duane Meyer 
Allison Deno 
Scott Whitbeck 
Dr. Tenesha Fremstad 
Terra Dupont 
Karen Korol 
Dermathe LeVelle
Naomi Byrdo
Danielle Eastman 
Brandon Eastman 
Jeff Baker 
Cynthia Golston 
Angela Meyer
Liliu Aleaga
Noelle Blanchette
Aaron Draganov
Sreymom Serey 
Sina Peter 
Daniel Blanchett
Melissa McLean
  D. Welcome Message - Director Simpson
  Director Simpson shared the Community Agreements. 
  E. Land Recognition - Director Simpson
  Director Simpson conducted the Land Acknowledgement. 
  F. Flag Salute
  President Hoover led the room in the Pledge of Allegiance. 
  2. Approval of Agenda
  A. Approval of the Agenda for the April 23, 2024 Regular Board Meeting
  Director Simpson made a motion to approve the Agenda for the April 23, 2024 Regular Board Meeting. 
Director Larson seconded the meeting. 
All voted in favor of the meeting. 
The motion carried.  
  3. District 2 - Board Director Appointment
  A. District 2 - Board Director Appointment
  President Hoover called for nominations for District 2 Board Director. 
  Director Larson nominated Kate Kruller for District 2 Board Director. 
Director Simpson seconded the nomination. 
  Director Larson made a motion to appoint Kate Kruller as Board Director - District 2. 
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
  Board Directors For: 
Director Larson 
Director Proctor 
Director Hoover 
Director Simpson 
  Board Directors Opposed: 
None
  The motion carried. 
  4. Host School Welcome
  A. Host School Welcome - Cascade View Elementary School
  Dr. Tenesha Fremstad, Principal, Cascade View welcomed the Board and shared a presentation. 
  Highlights included: 
Open House and Ribbon Cutting for Dual Language Classroom 
SIP Goals
           -Implementation of core curriculum that ensures differentiated instruction, targeted intervention planning, and systemic instruction in math and reading foundational skills for 100% of all students to meet their iReady stretch goals by June 2024.
           -By June 2024 100% of certificated staff will have participated in Race and Equity Conversations through discussions, readings, and reflections. We will reduce exclusionary discipline incidents by 5% for students who are African American and or identified as low-income.
           -By integrating SEL into School-wide practices and instruction we will support an equitable learning community that contributes to positive change as measured by a reduction in Tier 2 and Tier 3 behaviors.
iReady Data 
           -Reading 5 level placement - Three (3) grade levels or more - 19% of the 459 total students. 
           -Reading K-5h - 60% of the 459 students are reaching their typical growth.  As for the stretch goals, we are not quite there yet. We went from 24% to 18% which means we have had students that have jumped 
            from three or more grade levels behind to right at grade level. That is showing the growth over time. For the students at two (2) grade levels, we went from 24 to 18. You can see that 41% is either right at grade level or right below grade level. 
           -Math - We have a higher amount of students that are below grade level, so we need to look at the 19% of the 459 students to see what we need to do.  
           -Placement Level - In looking at the third placement over the years, that is where we see the growth of the students. Currently, we are at 54% for typical growth.  For reading, we were at 59%.    
  SWIS Data - there are some months with higher referrals.  There is a direct correlation between breaks and students returning to school.  One celebration is for our African-American students.  They represented 16% of our school enrollment and last year 18% of those students were receiving those referrals which was 2% higher than expected.  This year,  African-American students account for 20% of our school enrollment and represent 7% of students receiving referrals. 
Attendance - Overall attendance is 90.4%. 
Race Equity and Anti-Racism - Kudos to our race and equity leads.  We are continuing our professional development with all staff.  
Support needs 
          -Traffic needs - there are safety concerns, i.e. no school zone, no crosswalks, no flashing lights nor speed bumps 
           or school zone signs.  The City of Tukwila is aware of these issues.  Staff are not allowed to direct traffic.  
SEL PD - SEL screener is needed.  
Time - We need more time. Belong Partners come in throughout the day.  They need more time in our schools. 
Substitutes
Celebrations - New playground, attendance, WIDA, Dual Language Inagural Classroom, Maitland P Simmons Award Recipient, Disney Musical Lion King, Seattle JazzEd Performance, Partnerships and Enrichments, Fall and Spring Conferences.  
  Director Larson asked what percent of students are here and what percent of the students regularly attend school which is defined by the state as less than two (2) absences.  Those are two different numbers.  He would like the district to look at what the state calls regular attendance.
  Dr. Fremstad recognized Ms. Golston, who is the Assistant Principal for all three (3) elementary schools.  We appreciate all the work you have done and want to thank you for the work you have done over 40 years of experience in education. We appreciate the joy you bring to the office, your integrity and wisdom.   
  5. Public Comment
  A. Public Comment
  President Hoover called for Public Comments. 
  Cynthia Golston, Vice Principal - Cascade View - My name is Cindy Golston (Cindy with a Y for those who always ask), and I am here to provide you with information regarding the recent elimination of my position as Elementary Assistant Principal for the three elementary schools in the Tukwila School District. The perspective I will be taking with my comments is one through the lens of INTENT and IMPACT. This lens has been one that administration and all staff have been invited to utilize and work on as we interact with one another. In essence, it encompasses the need to be aware that no matter what or how good the INTENT of the communication or decision is, the IMPACT on the receiver should be taken into account and be accounted for. First, I will start by disclosing that my speaking tonight is not to appeal for the reinstatement of the elementary assistant principal position. I understand fully the circumstances the district finds itself in and that these kinds of decisions need to be made. That being said, while the INTENT is to bring the district into a better state of solvency, the IMPACT to me has been emotionally and physically draining for the last four weeks. I have lost sleep, become anxious about my family's financial future, spent countless hours seeking out availability and cost of changing and accessing health insurance and health care providers, contemplating potential relocation and its cost, etc ... all the while coming to work with a smile and optimistic attitude. While the INTENT of the decision was sound, the IMPACT for me of the decision-making and delivery process has led to a huge sense of disappointment in leadership and has resulted in me losing a considerable amount of joy in the work that I currently am engaged with and have experienced over the last few years. At this time, it appears that the three principals that I work with were not consulted, I was never asked to talk to decision-makers regarding the full spectrum of work in my assignment, and provided with a letter that seemed to say, sorry it's not you, it's us, and if a "suitable" job comes up we'll let you know. In addition, I have yet to have district-level administration intentionally inquire or communicate with me as a follow-up to my termination. While the INTENT of the timing was probably felt to be early enough to allow me ample time for job searching, the IMPACT was that it occurred just two weeks after my 62nd birthday, a significant number in the world of career decision-making; just as the numbers 10, 30, 65 and 67 are depending on when one can or desires to retire. This in and of itself should have been taken into consideration so that it didn't feel as if I received a subtle invitation to step aside. In addition, the date of March 26, 2024, was also the day that this school board voted on an extended contract and full title of Superintendent to Dr. Pedroza, and while not begrudging her achievement, it just added a little further sting to my termination. While I am sure the INTENT of the decision-making process was done with minimal people in order to save others from feeling the full impact of the decision, the IMPACT is that it is a decision that will affect to a large extent, my fellow elementary education administrators next year. Each will have to assume approximately 40 additional hours devoted to IEP evaluation, planning, and IEP development meetings to ensure that all preschool and elementary student special education plans are in place. In addition, another estimated 10-15 hours for each principal will need to be devoted to para-educator support, goal-setting, observations, and evaluation completion. Depending on ESP openings available, an additional five-plus hours per vacancy will be needed to go through the hiring process. This year, I led the hiring for no less than ten vacancies. I was also part of a group that provided training to ESP para educators through the required Fundamental Skills Course which will need to be picked up by someone else, as well as the 25 days of being a Principal Designee for the principals, some that were planned and others that were not. In addition, there are a multitude of other smaller job duties and daily happenings that fell upon me and these will still demand building administrative-level supervision and decision-making to ensure all students are provided with adequate safety, social-emotional security, and academic progress. Yes, the INTENT of downsizing is inevitable, however, the very real emotional and physical IMPACT that it creates in the receiver of being let go or RI Fed should be one of the BIG ROCKS in priority management with all administrators as downsizing begins for real. As I continue to live in the IMPACT of downsizing, I am looking forward to finalizing my next steps which include networking at the AWSP Summer Conference for potential employment opportunities. Before ending, I want to thank all my fellow district principals. Each of you are leading in the moment while continuing to look to the future. I believe in you and the positive IMPACT you provide to all students.  Another set of people that has been very much appreciated for their leadership and support is the Human Resources department: Mr. Aaron Draganov, Ms. Sally Jerome, Ms. Ellen Gengler, and Ms. Alysia Scott. I wish you the best and you will be in my thoughts as you lead the district in personnel matters for the rest of this year and next. Last but not least a most heartfelt thank you to Dr. Fremstad and Ms. Meyer for being there in all our most joyous, most frustrating, and most humorous moments every day, every year. My final thank you is given to my family and support system: my husband Steve and the three blessings of my life, James, Mariah and Josh Jiminez Golston for joining me on this trip to Seattle and now places unknown. My best to you all.
  Angela Meyer, Office Manager - Cascade View - Good evening. My name is Angela Meyer and I am the office manager at Cascade View. I don't know if this is going to get me called into the office again, but I sit before the board frustrated, disappointed, and angry. I understand that cuts need to be made, but the decision to cut the only assistant principal shared by three elementary schools shows the nescience of the board on the importance of Mrs. Golston to the three elementary schools. I want to give you a glimpse into a day in an elementary school but before I go further, I want to explain that Mrs. Golston only has one designated space, which is at Cascade View. For the 6 years, she has been split between 3 elementary schools, she has had to work out of storage closets, hallways, or other spaces she has had to seek out. Once she has a space and sets herself up for the day, if she leaves, she may come back to find her stuff packed up, put in a chair and wheeled into a hallway. The lack of respect she has been shown as an assistant principal has been horrible. A typical day at an elementary school can start out with a call from transportation regarding a problem on a bus and asking for someone from the office to meet the bus. Depending on the issue, it might lead to an investigation or, at the very least, speaking with a student or students about their actions. Parents, sometimes angry, come in to speak with an administrator regarding a problem, which again may lead to an investigation or pulling students to speak with them. We get calls from classrooms for support if they have a student who is not being safe. This could be anything from yelling to throwing things to biting or hitting. Once the student is in the office, the administrators will speak with the student or students to determine the next steps and parents will be contacted. In between this, the office is fielding phone calls, writing tardy slips, and making sure classroom attendance is done. Once all attendance is in, we start making contact with those students that are unexcused. Our recesses begin at 10:45 am and our first lunch starts at 11:00 am with our last lunch ending at 12:35 pm. We can have students fighting either on the playground or in the lunchroom. Again, depending on the severity, this can lead to investigations, but will always mean administrators speaking with students and parents. We now go into PM recesses and again, there are fights that happen. We are still receiving calls from classrooms for support, answering the phones and the door, getting students from class who are leaving, and, if there is no health room support, we are also acting as nurses. Simply speaking with students takes time. Investigations can take an entire day or multiple days. Calls to parents take time. There are very often days when we look at the clock and it's 2:00 pm or later and we haven't had a chance to have a break. This does not account for the meetings that building administrators are required to attend, not including IEP's. Last year, Mrs. Golston attended over 150 IEPs. 150. These meetings can take anywhere from a half hour to an hour, sometimes longer. In October, all employees, certified and classified, are required to have goal-setting meetings. Principals are required to observe all certified staff a minimum of twice per year. In May, they must conduct summative conferences with all certified staff and if these are not completed on time, principals can be fired. All classified staff receive end-of-year evaluations. Mrs. Golston took on all of the classified staff goal-setting meetings and evaluations in each of the three elementary schools and still does the majority of those meetings. With the elimination of Mrs. Golston's position, elementary principals are now responsible for all required classified and certified observations and evaluations, IEP's, discipline, and parent complaints, on top of required meetings. How? Are you expecting them to work 24/7? Let's also remember that this opens them up to being grieved by staff because they are not able to get everything done. Principals are supposed to give grace and understanding to staff but they are not afforded the same grace and understanding by some of the same staff. What I don't see is district administration in buildings for extended amounts of time to see what we deal with on a day-to-day basis, yet the expectation going into the next school year is to have one, one elementary principal to maintain and do everything with no support. The relational trust between district administration and the schools is nonexistent and I am truly concerned for next year. How many times has district administration gone home and cried because of fights; or because of the blatant disrespect of students; or because we are being pulled in so many directions that we don't have time to breathe? I don't think district administration along with some staff know what the front office does every single day. The negative and disrespectful attitudes we have to deal with from every direction, yet we are expected to maintain our smiles and professionalism. I made a statement to the board in November about concerns regarding some of our programs and unfortunately, there hasn't been any change. In fact, it's gotten worse. We have 5 schools in our district. We are not Kent, or Highline or Seattle that have "teams". We don't have multiple deputy superintendents, nor do we have multiple assistant directors in each program. Our executive directors and directors are the "team". I still haven't seen directors visiting their programs for any length of time. Something has got to change. We are doing a disservice to our most vulnerable students, and it is concerning. Once again, I am asking for support for Dr. Fremstad. There seems to be a separate set of rules for her than there are for the other principals. She has been and continues to be subjected to things that the other principals are not. The absolute disrespect that she endures on a daily basis needs to stop. The false narratives continue. She is accountable for ensuring we are doing everything we can to provide our students with the best education we can give them. Every decision that comes out of her office is always student-centered. We don't have to like everyone or agree on everything, but we do need to respect each other as colleagues. I have raised concerns with district administration about some things that Dr. Fremstad has been put through this year yet I don't see anything being done. So again I am pleading with district administration to please support Dr. Fremstad and put a stop to the things that no other principal is being subjected to.  I would like to end with a shoutout to Mr. Gabe Gutierrez, our district athletic director. He put together a team store for Cascade View that hast-shirts, sweats, shorts, slides, blankets, water bottles, and phone cases. I appreciate Mr. Gutierrez taking the time to do this for Cascade View. I would also like to extend an open invitation to our board members to visit Cascade View and spend some time seeing what we experience on a daily basis. Thank you. 
  Liliu Algeaga, ELL and Community Member - shared concerns about the current financial situation and the upcoming cuts that are going to affect our schools and our district.  Why are we in this predicament due to the mismanagement of funds in our district administration building?  What has put us in this predicament and now staff are getting nailed.  This has happened over the years.  Her concern is why are the families, students and staff being punished for the mistakes coming from the Administration building over the years. It shouldn't have happened.  We have new board members.  Director Larson is the only board member who has been here the longest. The other four (4) directors are very new and they don't know what's been going on throughout the years in this district regarding budgeting, and now we have a new superintendent.   I was hoping as you being new directors and the new superintendent would really take a good look at what your considering when it comes to cutting staffing from our district, and the work they have put in.  It is not their fault that funding is in the negative.  It is not fair.  What is being affected is the before and after school programs and our students.  Students need a place to go as their parents are working two or three jobs.  Some of the parents now have no idea what to do next or where to take their kids.  She now comes in early so that a single parent can have a safe space for her children before school.  She just heard yesterday that Mr. Baker, Executive Director of CTE, Data and Technology position has been cut.  She shared the history on Mr. Baker's role in the CTE program and his work during COVID, including laptops, hotspots, etc. She asked that the Board reconsider the decisions made regarding position cuts. 
  Noelle Blanchett - Parent  - shared concerns about safety issues outside and inside the school which included speeding, not stopping at crosswalks, student safety when walking home, parking in crosswalks and on sidewalks.  The district is liable before and after school and this needs to be fixed immediately.  We don't want to wait until one of our students is seriously injured. Inside the school, there are fights and bullying every day.  Safety on the busses has become a concern.  There is a lack of support for the teachers in the classrooms and staff cuts will make it worse. Taking away the resources that the teachers and the students have is not the answer.  The teachers and resources are needed at our school. As a parent who has kids moving through the district, I don't want to send my kids to school.  My fifth grader will be home-schooled and will not continue in the district. I as a parent I feel like that is a failure.  I would like to see something change.  I want, as a parent, to be able to send my kids to school and fell like they are going to be safe. I the past, I have met with district leaders.  With Dr. Herndon, it was lip service.  I got a lot of talk and no action. I know we have new board members sitting in front of me and I would challenge you guys. Help our schools so our students can be safe, our staff has the support that they need, and don't take away the resources from Cascade View. 
  6. Reports
    A. Student Representatives Report
  Jr. Representative Brewster shared this month we had our first Superintendent Student Advisory Committee meeting.  This was an introduction meeting and allowed for students to get together and come up with ideas and voice concerns.  Currently, we have approximately 15 students representing all of our schools.  Discussion items included anti-racism, a cultural community with a diverse background, education, and taking action against racism.  There were a few students who had examples of racism in their school.  One student shared an incident that happened that day at the middle school.  We did establish action items, including addressing microaggression through education and policy adjustments.  The meeting concluded with a strong commitment for all members to advocate for positive change towards racism and to enhance the overall school environment.  The next steps include the implementation of this class and continue engagement for district leadership to monitor progress.  Our next meeting is tomorrow and we will be discussing community-building discussions and goals. 
  B. Superintendent Report
  Happy end of April!  I hope everyone had a restful spring break.  It is a much-needed break before the fast pace of items for the spring leading up to the summer.  
Building Closure Update:  The district administration building is officially open, we moved in the first day after spring break and we are open for enrollment or other items as needed. HB 1608 will be taking effect on June 6, which will allow us to obtain stock epinephrine without a provider's prescription. 
Right now, there's been an increase in contact precaution conditions, about 1-2 cases in a classroom at a time. At this time, there is one scabies case at Thorndyke and a bout of pink eye in a few of the kindergarten classes. Parents have received notification via letter regarding the exposures, and we will continue to monitor the need for intervention from Public Health. 
Racial Equity Update:  The principals and the equity lead met last week to discuss the next steps for the school improvement plan, discipline goals, and professional learning.  This is work they will continue to do to launch for the 24-25 school year.  The district administration met earlier in the month to look at targeted goal areas for the following year and reviewed scenario real-life situations and unpacked them collectively to align our understanding on how we move through critical anti-racist problems of practice.
Other Updates:
Thank you to the staff that supported our students and families who celebrate EID, it was a wonderful celebration with food, prizes, and games.
A shout-out to Zia Rahmizi and the Family Liaisons who are supporting the Afghan Refugee Event which was held last week and is happening this Thursday. 
Principal Parker, Principal Christopher, and City of Tukwila Chief Drever have met to plan the SRO/School Conversations that are happening this week after the MOA has been signed by both TSD and City of Tukwila.  The next steps are a planning meeting for how they will be launched in our schools. 
The Superintendent Student Advisory Council in meeting this Wednesday in the board room at 3:30 pm and on Zoom (hybrid).  Thank you to both of our student directors, Alex and Dennis, for taking the leadership of this group and they wanted to connect in person so we are offering that opportunity.
We had the Multilingual Learning Lab for K-8 teachers at Foster HS; it was a powerful day and all of our principals came to support their teachers and know how to provide coaching around the strategies discussed during the day. 
I will be participating in the Muckleshoot Regional Consultation process to support specifically our native American students within Tukwila and to move on two goals for continued Since Time Immemorial training for staff and family engagement.
Tomorrow is Early Release for all students is tomorrow.
Happy Administrative Professional Days – which is tomorrow!  Shout out to Deb Kohr and Angela Meyer who are here and present and to all of our Administrative Professionals.  Thank you for all you do!
  Upcoming events:
May 21st is our Tukwila State of the District & Staff Appreciation event at Foster High School!
May 24th – May 25th Foster High School production of The Lightening Thief – The Percy Jackson Musical at 7:00 pm and on May 26 at 2:30 pm at the PAC!
  C. Board of Directors Report
  Director Larson reported on attending the Lion King Play, which was held in the PAC at Foster High School. The students were able to perform on the big stage with a sound system and lights.  The students received a standing ovation and their faces lit up with smiles.  This shows the importance of the ARTS.  He reported he attended the WSSDA legislative committee. We are not the only school district grappling with current financial issues.  It is really important that we push to increase funding for schools.  There are a lot of people coming together on this issue to advocate for the legislature to fund amply for our schools. He shared a New York Times article on attendance.  COVID put a damper on attendance at the state level and nationally.   There is a correlation between COVID and attendance.  We need the legislature to provide funding allocation so that this issue can be addressed.  
  Director Proctor shared a statement to address the public comments received.  When it comes to navigating the budget 82% of the budget is allocated to staff salary and benefits.  We are from this community.  There is no us vs them dynamic.  These are all hard decisions, and everything is taken into consideration and to how it will affect and impact all parties involved.  We are all vested in this.  There are tough decisions to be made and it is hard.  As a Director, I hear you and I feel you.  We can talk about a culture that has trickled down to where elementary students are now fighting.  This is because adults are fighting.  We are all rowing this boat together.  There is no us vs. them.  I am not sure where the information or narrative is coming from.  If you have questions, please ask our Superintendent, Chief Financial Officer, or one of us so we can clarify and give you the correct information and bring understanding. We need to work together so that we can continue to serve our students. 
  Director Hoover shared they are looking forward to going to FHS civic classes in the next week or two. They wanted to add to Director Proctor's statement with the following reflections.  We all have a responsibility for how we got here.  There are decisions that are made via the collective bargaining agreement that significantly impact our budget trajectory over time. Could things have been done differently to continue to readjust our staffing to meet our declining enrollment? Yes, however, that still would have involved reductions in force. Should the reductions in force happened in previous years? Probably, but didn't because of all the reasons that you have shared that we agree with and yet here we are now where these things that maybe could have and should have happened before.  We now have to rightsize.  In addition, there is significant underfunding that also contributes to where we are today financially. When it comes back to this "mismanagement of funds", there are so many ways our Superintendent and Chief Financial Officer are thinking creatively on how things are shifting and can be done differently, they don't have any additional money to work with than we did before. If you have concerns, or it there is uncertainty about why something is being cut, I encourage you to reach out to the Superintendent or Chief Financial Officer. Since I have been on the Board for the last two (2) years, we have listened and have made changes to meet the needs of our district.  Culture change takes time and requires effort from everyone. 
  Director Simpson reported that he reached out to Highline Community College to see how the EXPO event went.  He shared that they are still waiting to hear from us. Dr. Pedroza shared that she is working in collaboration with the Vice President to finalize the MOU.  Director Simpson asked to be looped into the follow-up. He shared a statement in response to public comments.  Everyone who spoke tonight has definitely been heard. I wanted to make sure that you know that you have been heard. I can't imagine putting in the time and effort for many years, and then getting a letter that you are part of the reduction in force.  That is hard.  I don't want you to think that what is said up here doesn't impact us.  It does. This is a terrible spot for all of us.  We don't have all the answers.  He requested the letter that Assistant Principal Golsten shared. 
  Kate Kruller shared that she lives in the Cascade View neighborhood and shares the same safety concerns mentioned at the meeting tonight.  These are valid concerns. She shared she is a personal friend of Mr. Jeff Baker, and understands how difficult this is.  As we go through to figure out pathways to have better attendance, better assesment scores, so that we have students who say they prefer to attend Tukwila School District.  I can't fall in with the rumor mill, but I agree with the Superintendent and the rest of the Board Directors.  We are here now. We can do better.  There are very few chess pieces on the board right now and I hope that we can fix that soon.  We have to be honest with each other.  Director Larson is correct.  We need to advocate to the legislature to fully and amply fund our schools. As for the safety issues, we need to start getting these issues out in front of neighbors, City Council, etc.  
  7. Consent Agenda
  A. Approval of Minutes from the March 26, 2024 Board Meeting
  B. Approval of Minutes from the April 9, 2024 Board Work Session
  C. Approval of Warrants (General Fund, Capital Projects Fund, Associated Student Body Program Fund, Vouchers and Debt Service payments) (REVIEWED BY DIRECTORS LARSON and HOOVER)
  Director Larson made a motion to approve the Consent Agenda. 
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried.  
  8. Board Discussion
  There were no items for Board Discussion. 
  9. Questions Only - Presentations
  A. Monthly Financial Statement - March 2024
  Director Larson commented on the enrollment report.  He shared that he has concerns in regarding the high-class sizes, particularly at Cascade View and Thorndyke Elementary.  As we go into next year, it is important that we keep our class sizes down, particularly because the state can take funding away.  Class sizes need to be closer to 17. 
  Director Hoover asked if we have completed a cost comparison between 17 students vs. a higher number of students.  CFO Fleming shared that we have not completed a cost comparison.  Currently, we are sitting at 16.72 students per classroom district-wide. 
  B. 2023-2024 Financial Forecast
  Director Larson thanked CFO Fleming for finding additional sources of revenue which helped our ending fund balance. 
  10. Presentations
  There were no presentations. 
  11. Action Items
  A. Approval of Human Resources Staffing Report
  Director Larson made a motion to approve the Human Resources Staffing Report. 
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  B. Approval of 24-25 School Calendar
  Director Larson made a motion to approve the 24-25 School Calendar. 
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  C. Approval of Resolution No. 947 - Budget Extension
  Director Proctor made a motion to approve Resolution No. 947 - Budget Extension
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  D. Approval of Resolution No. 949 - Reduction in Force - Classified
  Director Larson made a motion to approve Resolution No. 949 - Reduction in Force - Classified. 
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  E. Approval of Resolution No. 950- Authorizing the Superintendent to Issue Non-Renewal Notices
  Director Larson made a motion to approve Resolution No. 950 - Authorizing the Superintendent to Issue Non-Reneal Notices. 
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  F. Approval of Resolution No. 951 - Reduction in Force - Certificated
  Director Larson made a motion to approve Resolution No. 951 - Reduction in Force - Certificated. 
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  12. Public Comment
  A. Public Comment
  President Hoover called for public comment.
  There were no Public Comments.  
  13. Executive Session
  There were no items for Executive Session. 
  14. Adjourn
  A. Adjourn
  Director Simpson made a motion to adjourn the meeting. 
Director Larson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  President Hoover adjourned the meeting at 8:53 p.m. 