  Regular Board Meeting - Virtual via Zoom & In-Person (6:00 p.m.) (Tuesday, June 25, 2024)
Generated by Deborah Kohr on Monday, June 24, 2024
    1. Call To Order
  A. Call to Order
  President Hoover called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
  B. Roll Call
  President Hoover called Roll Call. 
  Board Directors Present: 
President Hoover
Director Kruller
Director Simpson 
Director Larson
  Board Directors Absent: 
Director Proctor
  Student Representatives Present: 
Alex Brewster
Dennis Bao Nguyen
  Student Representatives Absent: 
Dennis Nguyen
  C. Welcome Guests
  Guests: 
Dr. Concie Pedroza
Deborah Kohr
Joe Camacho 
Scott Whitbeck 
Naomi Byrdo 
Amy Fleming 
Aaron Draganov 
Courtney Martinez
Robin Allsopp
Silvia Dicus Mora
Maricel Haessig
Terra DuPont
Duane Meyer 
Sue Lane 
Trevor Watt
Brandon Eastman 
Danielle Eastman 
Julie Herdt 
Maryan Abdow 
Amanda Foster
  D. Welcome Message - Director Proctor
  President Hoover shared the Welcome Message. 
  E. Land Recognition - Director Proctor
  President Hoover conducted the Land Acknowledgement
  F. Flag Salute
  President Hoover led the room in the Pledge of Allegiance. 
  2. Approval of Agenda
  A. Approval of the Agenda for the June 25, 2024 Regular Board Meeting
  Director Simpson made a motion to approve the agenda for June 25, 2024 Regular Board Meeting.
Director Kruller seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
  The motion carried.  
  3. Public Comment
  A. Public Comment
  President Hoover called for Public Comments. 
  President Hoover read the following comment received via email: 
  Courtney Burns Cadigan - Parent - I am a parent of a Tukwila Elementary School student. This school is wonderful thanks to all of the hard-working and dedicated staff and community. I’d like to advocate for keeping the Library teacher positions in the Elementary schools. Library time is a very valuable aspect of education, especially for children learning to read. Being read to and exposed to new books and ideas through the library can spark interest and excitement for young children. Without the librarians helping to facilitate that time intentionally, I feel that an important aspect of the educational experience would be missing. I appreciate that the board is having to make difficult decisions. The amount of classroom teaching positions that are being cut is alarming, especially as class sizes continued to grow during the last year. Please reconsider eliminating more teachers from our schools. Thank you very much!
  4. Reports
  A. Student Representatives Report
  Jr. Rep. Brewster reported that July 15th was the final student advisory meeting for the year. We finalized the anti-racism statement and made sure that it included ideas and perspectives from all of the students in the Advisory Committee.  We made sure to emphasize the importance of inclusivity and equity. Additionally, we discussed cyberbullying at Showalter Middle School and brought that to the attention of the Superintendent.  At the close of the meeting, we recognized and awarded the eight participants for their contribution to the Advisory Committee throughout the year.   
  Sr. Rep. Nguyen - No report
  B. Superintendent Report
  Dr. Pedroza shared the following updates: 
  Happy Summer for everyone in the community!   I have a few updates for the community.  
Updates:
Congratulations to all of the graduates for the class of 2024!  It was wonderful to see all of the families and community members.  Thank you to the board and the City of Tukwila Mayor McLeod for all of your support.  Special thanks to the Foster administrators and staff who created a memorable event.
This summer, we welcome our new Foster High School Assistant Principal Jimnie Lorca, we are excited for him to join our team. 
Summer programming begins July 8th at Cascade View and Foster High School.
Summer food program will also be there to provide breakfast and lunch for children up to age 18 years.  Any families needing meals before or after summer school can call our office to find out where they can in our area.
Our district offices are closed on Friday until August 9th to help with maintenance.
Enrollment packets will be accepted at our district administration building this summer and in mid-August, enrollment packets will also be accepted in our schools.
Budget Community forums, letters to our legislatures, and frequently asked questions are posted on our webpage for families who want to learn more. 
  I want to wish our staff, students, and families a wonderful summer break! 
  C. Board of Directors Report
  Director Kruller shared that she is a Rotary member and attended the senior awards.  It was a great event and approximately $25,000 was raised. She shared that four (4) students received solid scholarships.   She attended the FHS graduation at ShoWare. She shared that the new paint job in the parking lot looks great. This is a great start for safety. We need to have the curbs painted as well as there are still cones out. Perhaps we can push a little on the City to fast-track this as it is a safety concern.  She mentioned that the fences at Cascade View are much taller than at the other two (2) elementary schools and kids cant access the playground. She would like to add this to our discussion on our long-term facility plan 
  Director Simpson - No report 
  President Hoover shared that they attended graduation and was able to pass out diplomas. Thank you to the FHS team for organizing. Although there were some challenges, the benefits, i.e. all of the student's family can attend, definitely outweigh some of the challenges. At the recent Saturday session, the Board focused on their work and were able to establish a few goals which we will put forth for approval at our August meeting. The Board's goals will align with the district's goals.  They shared they joined the conversation for the Tukwila promise, which supports our scholars being able to have access to two years of higher education.  This is in partnership with the City of Tukwila. 
  Director Larson reported on attending the Superintendent Student Advisory Committee.  The group collaborated on the anti-racism statement which he shared is a high-quality product that the Board will be looking at and discussing later in this meeting.  He shared several pieces of data on the most current graduated class. Highlights included two-thirds of the students receiving a college-bound scholarship, $7.5 million received in other scholarships, and 20% of the students had the Seal of Biliteracy.  This was an outstanding class of 2024.  Director Larson shared updates on the upcoming legislative session as this is an election year.  One issue is equity in funding. Director Larson acknowledged and thanked Andra Maughan for her work on the Safety net funding coming to the district. This is the highest amount the district has received.  Director Larson commented on the theater program.  We are losing our theater teacher, however, the choir teacher will be taking on the theater program.  The new teacher has phenomenal plans for the program and several ideas for keeping the program in place.   
  President Hoover presented Sr. Rep Nguyen with a plaque for his two years of service on the Board.  The Board acknowledged and thanked Sr. Rep Nguyen for his contributions.  
  5. Consent Agenda
  A. Approval of Minutes from the May 28, 2024 Board Meeting
  B. Approval of Minutes from the June 8, 2024 Special Saturday Board Meeting
  C. Approval of Minutes from the June 11, 2024 Board Work Session
  D. Approval of Warrants (General Fund, Capital Projects Fund, Associated Student Body Program Fund, Vouchers and Debt Service payments) (REVIEWED BY DIRECTORS HOOVER AND SIMPSON))
  Director Kruller made a motion to approve the Consent Agenda. 
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
  The motion carried. 
  6. Board Discussion
  A. Superintendent Contract 
  As requested, an anti-racism statement was added to the Superintendent's contract, Section 4.2.  There were no additional changes. 
  B. Board Meeting Calendar 
  Last year, the Board made several updates to the meeting calendar, including shifting the meeting structure. This year was the first time we had a board work session and a regular meeting rather than two regular board meetings and work sessions.  In addition, we spread out Saturday meetings to happen quarterly instead of monthly.  The admin team is currently working on the 24-25 board presentation calendar so that after we approve the board meeting calendar, they will be able to identify what are the best presentations at the right time across the span of the school year. This will provide the Board with complete information, i.e. data, etc. to help inform their decisions. The intent of this discussion is to get feedback on the meeting structure as it sits this year and to discuss any changes, especially around Saturday meetings.  
  Director Larson shared that the current meeting schedule is great. 
  Director Kruller shared that the current meeting schedule is great and the strategies are good.  She shared she has concerns that the Board does not have diversity representative of the community.  She asked if the Board has gone out to the community to get their thoughts on becoming a board director, and what would be needed for them to consider becoming a board director.  President Hoover shared that the Board has talked to families and parents about becoming a board director, i.e. open house, PTAs, working with the PSESD, advocacy to remove citizenship as a requirement, authentic diversity - translator, translated materials, etc.   One of the reasons we changed the meeting structure was to lessen the amount of time spent at board meetings. There is a board director election in 2025 and they shared they would love to partner with Director Kruller to brainstorm some strategies.   
  Ideas that were shared to engage the community: 
Visit schools at lunchtime
Town hall - listening session 
Consideration for time, amount of work required
Family night - daycare, food, liaisons
  President Hoover shared that they will connect with Director Proctor for input on Saturday sessions. 
  Director Simpson shared that we need to be mindful of the amount of time needed as a Board Director.  As a parent, there would have been conflicts to serve as a Board Director due to family obligations and work schedules.  
  The Board will continue the discussion at the July 23, 2024 Meeting.  
  C. TSD Anti-Racism Statement - For Review
  The Board reviewed the Anti-Racism Statement.  The following changes were requested: 
  First paragraph, second sentence, add: "in part" after "which means". 
First paragraph, third sentence, add:  "Below are some specific actions that we believe will support in creating an anti-racist environment." 
Second paragraph, third sentence, add: "staff" at the end of the sentence "we will create safe spaces for". 
  This document will be reviewed and adopted at the July 23, 2024 Board meeting. 
  7. Questions Only - Presentations
  A. Monthly Financial Statement - May 2024
  Director Larson commented on the grants report. It doesn't appear that the report is reflecting what's being spent from grants.  Will this be corrected for next year?  CFO Fleming shared that it will be available in reports next year.  This year has been focused on the current budget, creating the 24-25 budget, etc. 
  B. 2023-2024 Financial Forecast
  Director Larson asked if the safety net funding would be added to the next report.  CFO Fleming confirmed it will be added to the next report.   
  Director Larson commented on our current financial situation and how we prevent this from happening again. The fund balance has always been the key number to look at. Director Larson proposed adding additional verbiage to Policy No. 6022.  The current policy states we have a minimum of 6% fund balance.  Director Larson suggested the following verbiage: "If the fund balance dips below zero, even for one month, it will trigger a formal action to correct the fund balance".  This action could be a plan from the CFO, cost reductions, etc. 
  President Hoover shared that this could be something, in addition to the policy, something that we imbed in the Board Handbook so that when new Board Directors come on board, there are some quick "snapshot" of items that they should look at, i.e. information on budget, fund balance, etc. 
  Director Simpson would like a deeper discussion on this topic at a future meeting. 
  C. Chronic Absenteeism
  President Hoover asked for additional understanding of when a districtwide event would be unexcused.  CAO Whitbeck shared that this does not occur often.  If a parent or guardian did not approve of the student being there for that.  However, the student wouldn't attend unless they already have the approval from the school.  
  Director Larson questioned the disproportionality data in the report.  CAO Whitbeck shared that date is not accurate.  Director Larson will revisit when accurate data is available.  
  Director Larson shared his formula for figuring out disproportionality and requested that we use this for future reports.  He will meet with CAO Whitbeck for further discussion. 
  D. Summer School Update
  President Hoover asked how did we overly communicate to families and students regarding the scaled-down summer school this year and how we chose the individuals and who we were focusing on for summer school?  How did we communicate with the students and families who were used to coming to summer school? Superintendent Pedroza shared in the last two years, we have used a selection process, specifically using data and MTSS processes to determine and select students for the programming.  The goal is to have ample funding so all students could attend, however, in our system, it's usually LAP and Title dollars that actually are part of the funding and they have strict requirements around using this funding. 
  E. McKinney - Vento Update
  The Board acknowledged and thanked Ms. Herdt and Ms. Abdow for their phenomenal work with students, families, and the community.  
  F. WA Kids Report
  President Hoover requested additional information on this assessment including what this assessment is, who takes it, and is it state-mandated.  CAO Whitbeck shared this is a state test for incoming kindergartens to gauge how ready they are for kindergarten standards on six (6) domains, which are listed in the report.  This is a state-required test and is given within the first month of school.   
  8. Presentations
  There were no presentations. 
  9. Action Items
  A. Approval of Human Resources Staffing Report
  Director Kruller made a motion to approve the Human Resources Staffing Report.
Director Larson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried. 
  B. Approval of Superintendent Contract
  Director Larson made a motion to approve the Superintendent Contract.
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  C. Approval of Food Services Contract
  Director Larson made a motion to approve the Food Services Contract. 
Director Kruller seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
    D. Approval of Tukwila School District Anti-Racism Statement
  Director Kruller made a motion to table this item to the July 23, 2024 Board Meeting.  
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried.
  E. Approval of Out of State Travel Request - Annual National Association for Education Homeless Children and Youth Conf - Orlando, FL - November 15-20, 2024
  Director Larson made a motion to approve Out of State Travel Request - Annual National Association for Education Homeless Children and Youth Conf. - Orlando, FL - November 15-20, 2024. 
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
    F. Approval of Donation - Pine Lake Middle School
  Director Kruller made a motion to approve Donation - Pine Lake Middle School. 
Director Larson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  Director Larson requested a thank you letter be sent on behalf of the District. 
  G. Approval of Donation - Ellison Foundation
  Director Larson made a motion to approve Donation - Ellison Foundation. 
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  Director Larson acknowledged and thanked Stephanie Aragon for her hard work in securing this grant.   
  10. Public Comment
  A. Public Comment
  President Hoover called for Public Comment. 
  There were no public comments. 
  11. Executive Session
  There were no items for Executive Session. 
  12. Adjourn
  A. Adjourn
  Director Larson made a motion to adjourn the meeting. 
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
    President Hoover adjourned the meeting at 8:52 p.m. 