  Board Work Session - via Zoom and In Person (3:00 p.m.) (Tuesday, February 13, 2024)
Generated by Deborah Kohr on Monday, February 12, 2024
    1. Call To Order
  A. Call to Order
  President Hoover called the meeting to order at 3:01 p.m. 
  B. Roll Call
  President Hoover called Roll Call. 
  Board Directors Present: 
Director Simpson 
Director Larson
Director Hoover 
Director Proctor
  Board Directors Absent: 
None
  C. Welcome Guests
  Guests: 
Dr. Concie Pedroza
Deborah Kohr 
Amy Fleming 
Aaron Draganov 
Andra Maughan
Naomi Byrdo
Allison Deno 
Scott Whitbeck
Jeff Baker 
Ellen Gengler 
Kate Kreuller
  2. Approval of Agenda
  A. Approval of Agenda
  Director Larson made a motion to approve the agenda. 
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
  The motion carried.  
  3. Discussion Items
  A. Board Budget Priorities
  President Hoover opened the discussion with a brief overview of the documents for this meeting, and possible outcomes from this meeting. 
  Director Larson commented that the budget priorities should connect to the current strategic plan.   
    Highlights included: 
  Three main high-level "buckets" - Educational instruction, Staff and Student Safety, Facilities
Educational Instruction - Enrichment - athletics, ARTS, Music, Clubs, Theater, Student Services
Staff and Student Safety - physical (SRO, Security Staff), emotional/mental - students
Facilities - Safety of buildings, vents, water
Technology - Levy is sufficient - a lowered priority for now
  Additional priorities: 
  Increasing student count - offering a more dynamic curriculum
Focus on MLL students which are currently 40% of our students. Maintain/increase services for multi-language learners 
Continuing work on being an anti-racist organization - PSESD contract 
Social/Emotional - how are students engaging outside of the classroom
  The Board Budget Priorities document will be reviewed and discussed at a future meeting. 
  The Board of Directors requested the following items: 
Detailed spreadsheet - program (working or not), cost, budget being used, reduction, and impact of reduction
Want input from principals, teachers, and staff who work with the students
Information on how we got here / how do we prevent this from happening again - including:
          *Accurate and timely budget reports
          *Increase student count
          *More efficient and effective systems
          *Progressive state funding system
Budget priorities document included with the budget proposal.  Include:
          *What are we/how are we doing a service differently
          *Explanation of "why" something may be going away
          *Document that shares/outlines the rationale
  Ms. Fleming, Chief Financial Officer shared that projections for revenue/expenditures will be presented at the Feb 27th Board meeting. 
  Resolution No. 945 - Fiscal Stabilization Plan - For Review
  The Board reviewed the draft of Resolution No. 945 and requested the following changes:
  Statement 2 - change the date from February 13th to February 27th
Include wording that references Resolution No. 944 - Binding Conditions 
  4. Adjourn
  A. Adjourn
  Director Simpson made a motion to adjourn the Work Session.
Director Larson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
  The motion carried.
  President Hoover adjourned the meeting at 4:53 p.m. 