  Special Saturday Board Meeting via Zoom and In-Person (9:00 a.m.) (Saturday, June 8, 2024)
Generated by Deborah Kohr on Thursday, June 6, 2024
    1. Call To Order
  A. Call to Order
  President Hoover called the meeting to order at 9:03 a.m. 
  B. Roll Call
  President Hoover called Roll Call. 
  Board Directors Present: 
President Hoover
Director Larson 
Director Simpson 
Director Kruller
  Board Directors Absent: 
Director Proctor
  C. Welcome Guests
  President Hoover welcomed guests.
  Guests: 
Dr. Concie Pedroza 
Dr. Knaus 
Dr. Rogers-Ard 
  2. Action Item
  A. Approval of Agenda
  Director Larson made a motion to approve the agenda.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.  
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  3. Discussion Items
  A. Board Self Assessment
  The Board reviewed the self-assessment results for all five standards. 
    Celebrations: 
Increase of 25% in Always and Most of the time in Standard 1
Increase in "base its decision on what is best for students' success"
#23 - highest it has been since 2013
Hiring retention has increased
Student achievement has increased
#47 - huge improvement over previous years results
#48 - increase as there are lots of opportunities for public comment
Advocacy has increased significantly 
Clear and accurate communication 
Intention with communication 
Consideration for input increased
    Growth Opportunities: 
Onboarding for new Board directors
Communicating to community
Set written goals for the Board 
Annual performance
Communicating rationale for decisions to the community
Monitor progress toward goals and outcomes of the district plan 
Collaboration with other state-wide entities 
Gathering input in a formalized way needs to be increased
Increase of reporting out
Process for responding to concerns, and comments was low
Long-term facilities plan in place decreased
    Dr. Rogers-Ard and Dr. Knaus shared a presentation with the Board related to the WSSDA Self Assessment results. 
  We will be centering and focusing on questions 35, 36 and 37.  As we reviewed the report, pieces were missing.  There has been a significant investment in Equity Leads and Building Equity teams, and a concentrated effort around race, equity, and anti-racism in the Tukwila School District. This Board report does not address this at all. This may not be WSSDA's best practice, but it is certainly Tukwila's best practice.  
  Two essential questions: 
  1. In what ways will the Board support the Superintendent in implementing antiracism best practices across Tukwila School District? 
2. In what ways will the Board publicly demonstrate individual and Board-level commitment to antiracism over the next two years? 
  Director Larson shared that we need to have a deeper dive into the race and equity tool kit.  Dr. Rogers-Ard shared that their team did not use the race and equity toolkit in their review as they felt the toolkit had not been updated, and it doesn't speak to anti-racism.  One of our recommendations to the Board is to look at the protocol, and questions that will allow for a deeper dive.  There should be a question about budget, policy, etc.  One of the first questions that should be asked is "Whose voice is being centered"?  The second question should be "Whose voice is not represented"?  Additional questions will be included in our final recommendations report.  Dr. Knaus will re-send to the Board the Policies document which contains questions regarding race and equity for policy/procedure reviews. 
  President Hoover shared that the Board needs some type of "norms" document on how we engage with each other in a board meeting when something is said, unintended, but rooted in anti-blackness or racism.  There have been times in the past that this is happenend, and it would help to have this in place to ensure that we are modeling awareness around the words that we use.  They would like to create a document on some "norms" responses for when those things happen.
  When moving toward anti-racism, representation is key.  How is the diverse community being lifted up if they do not see themselves represented within the Board, teachers, etc?  How do we see effectiveness?  Effectiveness is to see diversity at the leadership role and in the teacher roles.  
  Board statement:  By December 2024, the Board will implement practices that demonstrate our individual and collective commitment to becoming an anti-racist district. 
  Follow-up/Action items: 
  The Board of Directors will establish Board goals with statements of Racial Equity/Anti-Racism, including language from the Superintendent Student Advisory Committee - End of August 2024
Executive Assistant to research other districts' processes for committees, including how to determine which priorities they select and how they stay unified with the public.
Due to scheduling conflicts for Saturday meetings, the Board would like to consider other days/times.   Executive Assistant will work on calendaring two (2) additional sessions before the end of December.  
The Board of Directors will establish norms for their work together, and specific actionable approaches at a future Board Work Session.  This work is to be completed by the end of September 2024. It would be valuable to have PSESD assist on this.  
The Board of Directors requested anti-racism language be written into the Superintendent contract for the June 25th Board meeting. 
Board goals will be completed by the second August Board meeting.  Goals will include a measure for effectiveness and/or accomplishment of goals.  
The Board will implement processes to make their goals and action steps more accessible to the public. 
Board documents will be shared in Google Docs for accessibility. 
By the end of the 24-25 school year, the Board will establish two - three mechanisms for gathering community input, including person-to-person input.  
  B. Board Operating Agreements
  This item was tabled to a future meeting. 
  C. Welcome Message - Review and Update
  This item was tabled to a future meeting. 
  4. Adjourn
  A. Adjourn
  Director Larson made a motion to adjourn the meeting. 
Director Simpson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  President Hoover adjourned the meeting at 11:59 a.m. 