  Board Work Session - via Zoom and In Person (3:00 p.m.) (Tuesday, November 12, 2024)
Generated by Deborah Kohr on Thursday, October 31, 2024
    1. Call To Order
  A. Call to Order
  President Hoover called the meeting to order at 3:06 p.m.
  B. Roll Call
  President Hoover called Roll Call. 
  Board Directors Present: 
President Hoover
Director Simpson
Director Kruller 
Director Larson 
  Board Directors Absent:
Director Proctor - Excused 
    C. Welcome Guests
  President Hoover welcomed guests. 
  Guests: 
Dr. Concie Pedroza
Deborah Kohr 
Silvia Dicus Mora
Haley Durslag
Cindi Perez
Hsian-Yu Kuo
Scott Whitbeck 
Cynthia Perez
Brett Christopher
Suzanne Rieger
Andra Maughan
Dr. Jessica Proctor
Aaron Draganov
  2. Approval of Agenda
  A. Approval of Agenda
  Director Kruller made a motion to approve the agenda.
Director Larson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried.  
  3. Discussion Items
  A. Showalter Middle School - Improvement Plan
  Brett Christopher, Principal, Showalter Middle School, presented to the Board.
  Highlights included: 
  Proficiency vs Growth - WSIF uses growth, i-Ready measures differently
SGP - 8th Grade - 23-24 data
UDL for English Language Arts (ELA) - co-teaching, student access to grade-level standards, staff time, focused on instruction and collaboration
Student work, evaluation of work, and future planning 
Staff Journey - the best way to implement in the classroom 
Flexible Methods and Materials - Book Bingo
Data - collaboration - content, grade, 
Co-Teaching - planning and teaching 
Leveled Check-Ins Rubric - Pausing and Lifting for students - L1 - L4
Examples of L1 - L4 and the next level 
Grading Conferences  - Summative, Teacher to Student - Goal - Understand and ... 
Reading Jots - Grading Rubric 
  Director Larson commented that the 8th-grade math growth of 62% ranks us in the top 12%.
  Director Hoover commented on the grading conferences and how it is a wonderful example of equitable grading.  They inquired if there was a way that we could have some of the data that Showalter Middle School has been reviewing, added to some of the Board presentations.  We have state assessment data, etc, but the classroom data would represent growth in a more meaningful way.   
    B. Strategic Plan Goals - High Expectations for All
  The updated strategic plan was presented to the Board for final input.  The Board suggested the following changes: 
  Same order of items from one document to another, i.e. board goals, strategic plan goals, anti-racist goals, etc.   
Share the reason(s) for the goals we choose, i.e. "We choose these five goals as a priority because....." and a sentence or two or create a goal-tracking sheet.
Acronym heavy - put in a footnote,  a glossary sheet or have them spelled out with the acronym in parenthesis. 
Goal on financial health and sustainability
Anti-racist goals need to be stronger
Consistency in formatting - the current document has some goals written in text, and some goals are not there at all.  It needs to be easy to read, i.e. last year's goal, current year's goal, whether we made the goal or didn't. 
Consistency with data
Update page numbers 
On page 10, change the proficiency goal to a growth goal using SPG.  The goal should be 50% as we are currently at 48%.  
Internal progress monitor - need a realistic goal. There is no "real" goal using the current language. 
High Expectation Goals - under metrics for the MLL you have proficiency. We need to use progress goals.  WIDA uses progress goals and is criterion-based.     
  Director Simpson shared that he would like to have a Strategic Plan update/check-in at meetings. The update can be brief and should include: 
Where we are with our goals
Progressing or not
Set time and measure to see how we are doing.
One goal area at each work session
  We need to think about this strategically so if we have to course correct, we can do it at that time instead of at the end of the year. 
  Dr. Pedroza, Superintendent shared that an overview of the history of the Strategic Plan will be presented at the November 26th Board meeting.  Additionally, the updated strategic plan will be presented for approval at the November 26th Board meeting. 
    Director Kruller requested the Board schedule a special meeting to discuss the January 6th transition to the new administration. Director Hoover shared that the Identity Safety Taskforce is being formed to support student's safety and help with getting policies in place that will protect our students and families. 
  C. Student Retention - Discussion
  Dr. Pedroza, Superintendent presented Student Retention information to the Board. 
  Director Larson shared that he would like a presentation on the Care Team. The presentation should include patterns, trends, and an overview of the Care Team, data, including processes, and staff roles. 
  4. Public Comment
  A. Public Comment
  President Hoover called for Public Comment. 
  There were no public comments. 
  5. Adjourn
  A. Adjourn
  Director Kruller made a motion to adjourn the Board Work Session 
Director Larson seconded the motion. 
All voted in favor of the motion. 
The motion carried. 
  President Hoover adjourned the meeting at 5:57 p.m.