Board Work Session - via Zoom and In Person (3:00 p.m.) (Tuesday, January 30, 2024)
Generated by Deborah Kohr on Monday, January 29, 2024
1. Call To Order
A. Call to Order
President Hoover called the meeting to order at 3:00 p.m.
B. Roll Call
Board Directors Present:
Director Simpson
Director Larson
President Hoover
Director Proctor
Board Directors Absent:
None
C. Welcome Guests
President Hoover welcomed guests.
Guests:
Dr. Concie Pedroza
Deborah Kohr
Amy Fleming
Greg Woodard
Justin Lanting
Andra Maughn
Sally Jerome
Ellen Gengler
Scott Whitbeck
Jeff Baker
Jolie Valentino
Naomi Byrdo
Dr. Fremstad
Rion Peoples
Moses Njuana
Carrine Woodfolk
Liliana Cardenas
Marciel Haessig
Kate Krueller
Phone In Caller
Allison Deno
Aaron Draganov
2. Public Comments
A. Public Comment
President Hoover called for Public Comments.
There we no public comments.
3. Discussion Items
A. Washington State Budget 101
Justin Lanting shared a presentation on the basics of School Budgets.
Topics covered:
Where does the funding come from - State, Federal, Local
Budget timeline and deadlines
What affects funding - Enrollment is a primary driver of funding as well as staffing, materials, supplies, and operating
costs
Enrollment - calculation methods
Staffing models based on the funding model
Staffing allocations
Staffing funding
Other Staffing - Categorical Funding

State Programs - LAP Transitional Bilingual, Gifted, Special Education, CTE
Federal/Other - Title, IDEA, ESSER, Perkins Grant, Learn 2 Return, Limited English Proficiency
MSOC - Technology, Utilities, Insurance, Curriculum, Textbooks, Supplies, Prof. Development, Security, Facilities,
Maintenance, Capital
Accounting Structure - Budget codes
Braiding - funding pooled
Co-Curricular - levy funded
ASB - student-driven funds
Timeline for budgeting - class size, preliminary staffing allocation, enrollment projections, contracts, etc.
B. Tukwila Budget and Timelines
Amy Fleming, Chief Financial Officer, and Greg Woodard, Interim Chief Financial Officer shared a presentation on the current
budget for Tukwila School District.
Highlights included:
Current schools in the district including one charter school and one private school
Enrollment numbers by school throughout the last five (5) years
Fund Balance Accounting - General, Capital projects, Debt Service, ASB, and Transportation Vehicle fund
22-23 Revenue - local monies come from our levy - if the levy passes, we are projected to receive $8.5 million
General Apportionment and Special Purpose - shows specific funding we receive from the state
State General Apportionment Staffing examples
State General Apportionment Staffing MSOC example
Federal revenue - all grants received had significant red tape. ESSER funding is ending, which creates a financial cliff for
school districts.
ESSER Funds - received approximately $18M and have approximately $6M left. With funds ending, this will significantly
impact students, staff, programs, and curriculum.
22-23 Expenditures - 75% of our budget is staff salaries and benefits and 25% is MSOCs.
Revenue vs. Expenditures - Starting in 21-22, the district spent $2.2M more than it received. Director Larson shared that
he believed the Board did not get transparent information in a timely manner.
Ending Fund Balance - The district spent $3.0M more than it received last year, which reduced the ending fund balance by
$3.0M. A negative ending fund balance automatically triggers binding conditions. Director Simpson asked, if we are
running at negative $1.5M, what is our projection for 23-24? Mr. Woodard shared that information will be presented
either by the end of February or March.
Binding conditions - What it is and what it isn't.
Reduction in Force - key dates/timeline
Bargaining implications- working with all bargaining units within the same timeframe
The Board of Directors requested the following items before the February 13th Work Session:
Bargaining - what is the ask from the union, current contracts, what are the expectations?
Program Summary - list of programs that are and are not working, costs, etc.
Board of Directors Budget Priorities
Board Budget Philosophy

4. Adjourn
A. Adjourn
Director Larson made a motion to adjourn the meeting.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
President Hoover adjourned the meeting at 6:01 p.m.

