Regular Board Meeting - Virtual via Zoom & In-Person (6:00 p.m.) (Tuesday, July 23, 2024)
Generated by Deborah Kohr on Thursday, July 18, 2024
1. Call To Order
A. Call to Order
President Hoover called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B. Roll Call
President Hoover called Roll Call.
Board Directors Present:
President Hoover
Director Larson
Director Kruller
Director Simpson
Director Proctor
Board Directors Absent:
None
C. Welcome Guests
President Hoover welcomed guests.
Guests:
Dr. Concie Pedroza
Deborah Kohr
Aaron Draganov
Scott Whitbeck
Amy Fleming
Andra Maughan
Naomi Byrdo
Danielle Eastman
Joe Camacho
Maricel Haessig
Grace Saturnino
Courtney Martinez
JR Lorca
Duane Meyer
Susie Kelly
Liliana Cardenas
D. Welcome Message - Director Proctor
Director Proctor shared the Community Agreements.
E. Land Recognition - Director Proctor
President Hoover conducted the Land Acknowledgement.
F. Flag Salute
President Hoover led the Room in the Pledge of Allegiance.
2. Approval of Agenda
A. Approval of the Agenda for the July 23, 2024 Regular Board Meeting
President Hoover requested Agenda Item 7.B - Superintendent Student Advisory Update and Agenda Item 7.E - Foster Senior
Report are tabled and moved to the August 27, 2024 Board Meeting.
Director Kruller made a motion to approve the Agenda for the July 23, 2024 Board meeting as amended.
Director Larson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
3. Public Comment
A. Public Comment

President Hoover called for Public Comments.
There were no public comments
4. Reports
A. Student Representatives Report
No Report
B. Superintendent Report
Happy end of July! This is a slower month for the district, with schools closed except for summer programming. I have a few
updates for the community.
Updates:
Welcome Dr. Jessica Proctor who will serve as our Director of PreK-12 and Multilingual Services.
Welcome Brent Nichols, Director of Food Services – Chartwells
Sincere thanks to Trever Watts who served in this role for several years.
Summer programming ends this Thursday at Cascade View and Foster High School. The family showcase at Cascade
View is at 11:30am on Thursday.
Summer food program will also be there to provide breakfast and lunch for children up to age 18 years. Any families
needing meals before or after summer school can call our office to find out where they can find food after this week in the
community or check our website with the information look under SUMMER RESOURCE GUIDE.
Our district offices are closed on Friday until August 9th then be back full weeks starting August 12th.
We will be at the City of Tukwila Touch a Truck event this Saturday to pass out enrollment information! We will be there
at 10am!!!
Foster HS Registration Day will be Friday, August 23 – mark your calendars.
Tukwila Parks and Rec End of Summer Bash is August 30th from 6-7 at the Community Center.
We are excited to welcome back our families and students for the fall.
C. Board of Directors Report
Director Larson reported on several items. He attended the One America celebration at the community center. This organization
focuses on dual language and immigration rights. He shared that they are a very effective legislative advocacy group and have
advocated previously for permanent residents to be on school boards. Currently, U.S. citizenship is a requirement to be on a
school board. He asked about the progress of removing the U.S. citizenship requirement. They shared that they have not been
successful as there are people in the legislature who are opposing it based on that "it's the slippery slope" argument meaning if
they do this for school boards, then other positions will also request this, which doesn't make a lot of sense. Director Larson
shared that we would be in support of this, and hopefully, they can find the right person to push this into approval.
Director Proctor attended the 3rd annual Juneteenth Celebration. It was a phenomenal event. It was good to be there, and good
to be on the program and he is looking forward to working with the City again on this event.
Director Hoover - No report.
Director Simpson - No report
Director Kruller reported on attending the Juneteenth Celebration. She shared that this year had the biggest attendance ever.
She shared that Director Proctor's message was great! She shared that as a stagehand, she works with various groups, one of
which is Climate Pledge Arenda. CPA shared messages that they are trying to work out grants for youth groups in the Arts. She
shared the information with Dr. Pedroza and Director Larson as this is a possible funding source for band and theater. It was
noted that one of the requirements is to use the grant to enhance neighborhoods around the CPA, however, Director Kruller
shared that she is still going to apply for the grant. She does need to know the amount of money spent on band and theater last
year so she can make that ask. Tukwila Children's Foundation (TCF) has progressed on a grant through BECU. They advanced
us and we were selected to move forward to the next step.
Director Proctor shared that he had two 2) meetings with Seattle theater, and shared the financial position we were in and asked
if they would partner with us, which they seemed open to. Dr. Pedroza shared that she would email Director Proctor for
additional details and contact information.
5. Consent Agenda
A. Approval of Minutes from the June 25, 2024 Board Meeting
B. Approval of Warrants (General Fund, Capital Projects Fund, Associated Student Body Program Fund, Vouchers
and Debt Service payments) (REVIEWED BY DIRECTORS HOOVER and SIMPSON)
Director Kruller made a motion to approve the Consent Agenda.
Director Larson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.

6. Board Discussion
A. TSD Anti-Racism Statement - Updated
The Board reviewed the updated statement.
Director Kruller requested punctuation corrections.
B. Student Representatives - Recruitment
President Hoover provided an overview of the history of the student reps to the Board and our current process. In the past, we
have often seen that as the Jr. representative becomes a senior, their life gets more busy, i.e., engaging in senior activities,
preparing for graduation and next steps, etc. We have been thinking about expanding the role(s) of the student representative
to include a sophomore representative. This would allow another student voice, as well as more time on the board for students,
etc. Additionally, the expanding of these positions would ensure that we have a minimum of two (2) students at Board
meetings.
The Board agreed to add a sophomore representative. The policy and procedure will need to be updated to reflect this change as
well as adding an Advisory Vote for student representatives.
C. Board Calendar - 2024-2025
Director Kruller requested all changes be highlighted for easier reference.
Director Larson requested the following topics be added:
Add long-term facilities plan
Maintenance & Operations Update - include lead levels in the water and provide air quality/ventilation information
Add a Winterization update - are we prepared for freezing temp, what preparations have been or will be completed, etc.
Asset Prevention Plan - Follow up on what this is.
Capital Projects Plan - September report to include information on capital projects status, playground equipment that was
replaced, solar panels, etc.
ARTS report - what programs do we have in place, where are we going, etc.
Profile of a Graduate - Dr. Pedroza shared that this is part of the strategic plan and the team is still working on this.
SIPs - include last year's goals and report on where schools are on those goals, i.e. what goals were met, which ones
weren't, why?
Annual Organization - remove Legislative Representative as this is done in June on even-numbered years.
Budget Process - including how we are getting community input, more transparency with staff cuts, and input on
transparency from the Student Advisory Board.
President Hoover requested the Board Directors look at the BOD priorities, reports, policies, and "legacy" reports and to make a
list of those items and send to Dr. Pedroza. Additionally, Dr. Pedroza's team will identify a few that they beleive could be
removed. This would provide more context for discussion at the next Board meeting.
D. 2024-2025 Budget
Director Larson commented that there were two (2) sections missing. One is the Board Budget Priorities document. It is
important to include this document in the budget documents as it provides the community with a clear understanding of where
the Board is focusing funding. Director Larson asked why this document was not included in the budget documents. CFO
Fleming shared that she could not find clear documentation on Board Budget Priorities. There were several conversations on
budget priorities, but could not find a finalized, approved document.
The other section missing is the Enrichment section. Director Larson shared that this section includes the local levy dollars and
where the funding is used. This section is important as taxpayers can see where their tax dollars are being spent. Additionally,
Director Larson looks at this information from an advocacy perspective as it shows what we are spending locally and track the
difference between state funding and local funding. CFO Fleming shared that she would add this section back in to the budget
presentation.
Director Larson commented that we need to capture the true financial position, including inter-fund loan(s).
Director Simpson asked why were invoices from April and May held back for payment. The total for these invoices are $600K
and we are now having to take an interfund loan again. Where was the breakdown in the process? CFO Fleming shared that
there was some confusion in the conversations with our insurance company and the adjuster and what needed to be paid. This
was the explanation given as to why the invoices were not paid. She shared that additional conversations occurred regarding the
process and to make sure that all of our bills are turned in timely, especially because of the cash flow situation that we are
currently in so that we can monitor our cash.
7. Questions Only - Presentations
A. Monthly Financial Statement - June 2024

Director Larson asked what is the plan for spending the $2.2 million of ESSER III funding. CFO Fleming shared that this funding
is encumbered for July and August salaries, all summer school costs, etc. Additionally, we have until September 30th if needed
to get the money spent.
B. Superintendent Student Advisory Committee Update
This item was tabled to the August 27, 2024 Board Meeting.
C. 2023-2024 Financial Forecast
D. i-Ready - Final Diagnostic
Director Larson shared that he wants to see stretch growth data. We continually talk about proficiency, but we do need to see
and talk about the growth data. He understands that it is being worked on. Dr. Pedroza shared that a meeting needs to be
scheduled to discuss the exact data needed, the best way to report the information, etc. CAO Whitbeck shared that July is the
earliest that we would have data. There is some information about growth. It basically shows that there is not a significant
difference in growth rate between students.
Director Simpson shared that he would like to visit the school(s) when the test is happening to understand how the testing
works, etc.
E. Foster Senior Report
This item was tabled to the August 27, 2024 meeting.
8. Presentations
A. Assessment Guidelines
CAO Whitbeck shared the assessment document, which contains information on all of the assessments that are planned for the
coming year, past assessments, and assessments that are currently being "retired" and. The document also includes mandatory
state, federal and district assessments and languages offered for testing. Additionally, college testing was included.
9. Action Items
A. Approval of Human Resources Staffing Report
Director Larson made a motion to approve the Human Resources Staffing Report.
Director Kruller seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
B. Approval of Principal CBA 2024-2025
Director Larson made a motion to approve the Principal CBA 2024-2025.
Director Kruller seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
C. Approval of TSD Anti-Racism Statement
Director Kruller made a motion to approve the TSD Anti-Racism Statement.
Director Larson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
D. Approval of Donation - Somali Cultural Center
Director Proctor made a motion to approve Donation - Somali Cultural Center.
Director Kruller seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
E. Approval of Interfund Loan
Director Larson made a motion to approve Resolution No. 952 - Approval of Interfund Loan.
Director Kruller seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.

The Board requested an August status update regarding the loan being paid off.
10. Public Comment
A. Public Comment
President Hoover called for Public Comments.
There were no public comments.
11. Executive Session
There were no items for Executive Session.
12. Adjourn
A. Adjourn
Director Proctor made a motion to adjourn the Board Meeting.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
President Hoover adjourned the meeting at 9:05 p.m.

