Board Work Session - via Zoom and In Person (3:00 p.m.) (Tuesday, October 8, 2024)
Generated by Deborah Kohr on Monday, October 7, 2024

1. Call To Order
A. Call to Order
Vice President Simpson called the Board Work Session to order at 3:04 p.m.
B. Roll Call
Director Simpson called Roll Call.
Board Directors Present:
Director Simpson
Director Larson
Director Proctor
Director Kruller
Board Directors Absent:
Director Hoover - Excused
C. Welcome Guests
Vice President Simpson welcomed guests.
Guests:
Dr. Concie Pedroza
Deborah Kohr
Jessica Othman
Silvia Dicus Mora
Andra Maughan
Scott Whitbeck
Amy Fleming
Aaron Draganov
Moses Njuguna
LaTanya Parker
Naz Rokanaki
Ashley Berg
Sedrick Johnson
Robert Jones
Joe Camacho
Dr. Jessica Proctor
Ashley Byrd
Stephanie Herrera
Shedrick Johnson III
Robert Jones
2. Approval of Agenda
A. Approval of Agenda
Director Kruller made a motion to approve the agenda for the October 8, 2024 Board Work Session.
Director Larson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
3. Discussion Items
A. WSSDA Legislative Top 10
Director Larson shared an update on WSSDA's General Assembly meeting. This is a meeting where we vote on different positions
that we are going to take as an organization. The next step is for each district to vote on its top 10 legislative issues. There are
approximately 120 various positions and the deadline for submitting our top 10 positions is today. Director Larson shared his
recommendations for our top 10 positions. The main focus of the top 10 focuses on funding. If there are no changes, Director
Larson will submit this list to WSSDA.
Additionally, Director Larson prepared a letter for for Board Directors to sign. This letter requests our legislators to reintroduce
the bill to allow permanent residents to apply to be board directors.

B. Foster High School Reports - Senior and Post Graduation Reports per Policy 2410
Director Larson commented that 66% is a record for Foster High School for graduation students receiving the College Bound
Scholarship as well as the 95% graduation rate. We haven't been above 90% in years. Director Larson requested additional
College Bound Scholarship data, to include information broken down by race and gender.
Dr. Pedroza shared that we have the AVID program at the high school and middle school.
Director Larson commented on Ninth Grade on Track to Graduation On-Time. He would like data on what students are failing,
which courses or programs, etc. Principal Parker shared that they are implementing grading for equity at Foster High School.
Dr. Pedroza shared that High School and Beyond Planning is a priority in our Strategic Plan. It is important for students to
understand that this is a journey, not a destination.
Director Larson requested that Running Start is added to the Future Educator Program and include a participation goal along with
data.
Director Larson shared that last year TSD collaborated with the City of Tukwila regarding the distribution of Chromebooks to 132
Foster High School students. He asked what are we seeing as to the impacts of that program. The program was to provide
high-quality internet access outside of school and have it available at the student's home. Principal Parker shared that due to
relocation, some of the laptops were lost. Director Larson asked is the district responsible for the replacement costs. Dr.
Pedroza commented that when we have the I.T. report, we can include information on this project.
The Urban League shared an overview of their services, upcoming events, and goals for the 24-25 school year.
Events:
Down South College Tour with 20 students - We are planning another spring break college tour.
Youth and Gov Club - This is our third year. In collaboration with the YMCA, we focus on student advocacy, helping
students understand how to use their voice and get involved in local government and beyond. We help them create a bill.
In May, when the legislators are out on vacation, we spend a week in Olympia. We tour the facilities and have the
students sit in the seats of the Senate and House of Representatives to "argue" their bill. Students from all over the state
of Washington attend and argue their bills amongst each other. This year we plan on taking 12 youth.
Black Student Union - This is our second year as Advisors. Last year, we helped coordinate the Black History Month
assembly. We served ten (10) students, consistently, last year throughout our school programming and during the
summer. This year, the focus is getting more active members and making sure that lunchtime activity are a part of that.
After-school supports:
Health and Beauty - Last year the focus was on nails and hair program. This year will be on makeup artist.
National Day of STEM - STEM is a growing program. This year we are partnering with Mr. Camacho, Environment
Teacher. The project will focus on the preservation of Coho salmon.
Summer University - This is our fourth year in this program. This year we are focusing on rising Juniors and Seniors. The
one-week program will focus on college and career readiness, i.e. drafting personal statements, financial aid, application
process, etc. We ended this program with a Shark Tank project. Students worked on innovative projects, and presented
their projects to community members as "judges". The top three winners would receive additional money on their
checks.
Teach U - This is a leadership development program. This year, we had 18 students, many of them incoming freshmen. e
partnered with UW and they taught virtual reality coding to students.
College ED Program - This is a preparatory program for seniors who are entering their first year of college.
Web design and Coding program
Grad Night - We take students who are graduating to California to go to Disney Land. There are a lot of schools that
participate in this and usually, 100's of students attend.
Youth Leadership Summit - For the last three (3) years, we have taken 10 - 15 students to a leadership summit with
students from the Urban League affiliate nationwide. Last year, the summit was held in New Orleans. Students were able
to participate in STEM, leadership, building, community service, local school tours and classroom visits, financial literacy
workshops, and team-building activities. This year it will be held in Cleaveland, Ohio.
Goals:

FAFSA completion up to 90%. We will partner with Gear Up and host FAFSA nights.
Engage with students at college and career center focusing on the freshman and sophomore levels. We will host targeted
events specifically for freshman and sophomore students.
Increase high school completion to 95%. We have high school completion as a requirement to join the program.
Case Management - Our goal is to case manage 20 students per grade level.

Upcoming events:
FAFSA nights - Two (2) events scheduled for this month
National College Fair - Will take fifty junior and senior students.
November
Army partnership - This will be an all-day field trip to the army base. The focus will include the aviation program, base life, and
what it is like to live on base and military careers.

College Signing Days - Three colleges will be onsite the week of November 18th to provide information and accept completed
applications. The colleges participating are Western University, Eastern University, and Washington State University.
December
FAFSA nights
College trip - SMART Wednesday - Field trip to South Seattle College to learn about trade school programs.
Additional services and programs:
Health services
Housing services including homeless outreach, housing counseling, financial literacy, veterans outreach, and rental
assistance.
Eviction prevention
Homeownership
Financial empowerment
Housing Insecurity—This is an HUD-certified housing program that provides direct service programs and resources to
individuals and families who seek assistance with removing barriers preventing them from accessing safe, sanitary, and
permanent housing.
Housing Partnership
Mortgage Intervention Services
Black Home Initiative - a regional effort to address systemic injustices
Urban League Village - Low-income affordable housing, with 36 units.
Forbearance Assistance
Mental Health Provider
C. Strategic Plan - Data & Review
Dr. Pedroza shared an overview of the DRAFT 25-28 Strategic Plan alongside the current strategic plan to show updates and
changes and to request Board feedback.
Updates in the DRAFT plan:
Strategic Plan Analysis timeline
Targeted Universalism approach - problems of practice
Updated goals in each "section" of the strategic plan
Academic student goals based on data
Alignment of race & equity within the strategic plan
Systemic challenges - budgetary shortfall, staffing reductions, ELA curriculum funding, expanding MLL professional
learning and support and supporting impact from increased MKV students and ensuring needs are met
Systemic opportunities - school improvement aligned to strategic plan, anti-racist statement for district, universal design
for learning (UDL) and MTSS frameworks launch, MS Lab Aids curriculum, math i-Ready curriculum and Honors for all in
HS language arts, aligning street data framework to assessment and reporting, continue partnerships with BELONG
Partners, Boys and Girls Club and City of Tukwila.
All SIPs are required to add an anti-racist goal, a discipline goal and an attendance goal.
Board Feedback:
On Page 8 - add a targeted goal for MKV
On Page 9 - add: Native Hawaiin / Pacific Island students will improve scores by 5%.
Include science at the elementary level
Include "meet or exceed" in goal statements
MLL - change to "growth"
Director Larson shared that he prefers the "style" of the old strategic plan. The new draft plan "mashes" the metrics. high
academic piece
Dr. Pedroza requested the Board review the draft strategic plan and provide feedback at the October 22nd Board meeting.
D. Strategic Plan - Timelines and Progress Monitoring
4. Public Comment
A. Public Comment
Director Simpson called for public comment.
There were no public comments.
5. Adjourn
A. Adjourn

Director Larson made a motion to adjourn the Board Work Session.
Director Kruller seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
Vice President Simpson adjourned the meeting at 5:48 p.m.

