Regular Board Meeting - Virtual via Zoom & In-Person (6:00 p.m.) (Tuesday, September 24, 2024)
Generated by Deborah Kohr on Tuesday, September 24, 2024
1. Call To Order
A. Call to Order
President Hoover called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B. Roll Call
President Hoover called Roll Call.
Board Directors Present:
President Hoover
Director Larson
Director Kruller
Director Proctor
Director Simpson
Board Directors Absent:
None
Student Representatives Present:
Alex Brewster
Student Representatives Absent:
None
C. Welcome Guests
President Hoover welcomed guests.
Guests:
Dr. Concie Pedroza
Deborah Kohr
Aaron Draganov
Naomi Byrdo
Jessica Proctor
Scott Whitbeck
Amy Fleming
Jessica Othman
Chiara Whooley
Estelle Kim
Kristy Johnson
Kelly Gifford
Silvia Dicus Mora
Kimberly Goodman
Duane Meyer
Doris Dittmore
Joe Camacho
Melissa
Courtney Martinez
Christine Schmidt
Liliu Aleaga
Nick Brown
Tammy Tauiliili
Kyla Crawford
Flor Vaness Garcia Eligio
Danielle Eastman
Brandon Eastman
Stephanie Aragon
Dalton Rockwell
Duncan Bartlett
Katrina MercadoMadison Hammond
Natalie Reeder
D. Land Recognition - Director Kruller
President Hoover conducted the Land Acknowledgement.
E. Flag Salute

President Hoover led the room in the Pledge of Allegiance.
2. Approval of Agenda
A. Approval of the Agenda for the September 24, 2024 Regular Board Meeting
Director Kruller made a motion to approve the agenda for the September 24, 2024 Regular Board Meeting.
Director Larson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
3. Public Comment
A. Public Comment
Natalie Reeder - Community Member - Discussed her time as a teacher at Cascade View including student clubs and activities
she created. She shared her experience with her position being non-renewed and waiting to be recalled back to work. During
this time she secured a new position in another district. She shared that she did everything she could to stay with TSD. She is
still a very active member of this community, and her heart is broken for Cascade View, a magical place for all who get to
experience it, filled with language, knowledge, excitement, and community. At this time, three (3) classroom teaching positions
still need to be filled. It angers her even more to know that this could have been avoided. The positions that are trying to be
filled this year, could have been filled by quality educators who wanted them and would return to their community in a
heartbeat. They will find people to fill these positions, but the harm to the community won't be erased because the positions are
filled. The students, who she still thinks about daily, are being taught by substitutes while five (5) teachers who built lasting
connections over many years were pushed out of their school. The damage is done. The hurt to the community will last and the
trust is broken. Something needs to change. It may be too late for her, but it is not too late for her students. Four days earlier,
she accepted a new position in a different district. She shared she waited as long as she could and it broke her heart to decline
to return to Cascade View.
Madison Hammond - Community Member - Discussed her time as a teacher at Cascade View and various activities including coleading the Lego Robotics Club, coaching soccer and basketball intramural sports, and establishing an LGBTQ group for students
in and allied with the community. Students were able to find and build community while learning about their history and identity
in a safe space. At the end of last year, she received a non-renewal letter along with five (5) other colleagues and completed the
appeal process. While colleagues at other schools were recalled in June, there were no calls from Cascade View until a week
before the start of the school year. When hearing about the multiple substitutes filling the open positions turns her stomach,
especially as she has filed multiple complaints and brought up concerns about substitutes in our district. She shared that
although she does not know all the pieces of the puzzle in this situation, it does follow a pattern that she has observed over the
course of four (4) years where Cascade View is not receiving what students need. Last year there was talk of an SEL curriculum,
but there was no training or resources given for them; field trips have taken far longer to get approved than colleagues at other
schools within the district. Cascade View has had the highest referrals and suspensions than any other Elementary school and
there has not been any behavioral support. Now, our students have lost (5) trusted adults who have shown up for them in more
ways than just in the classroom. The harm to our community is irreparable despite new teachers who will be hired to fill those
positions. Students who already have more than enough going on outside of school are now having to experience these
sweeping changes without trusted teachers. Cascade View is the best school on earth. You will not find the diversity,
perseverance, understanding, creativity, and drive that our kids have. While I can't advocate for them as a teacher anymore, I
will now stand as a community member as I ask the district to do better for our students.
President Hoover requested the superintendent to send a communication out to the community regarding Cascade View recalls
and the process for filling open positions.
Superintendent Pedroza shared there are several reasons as to why recalls were delayed which included enrollment, last-minute
resignations, and internal transfers of staff at all schools.
President Hoover acknowledged the continued support from the community members.
4. Reports
A. Student Representatives Report
Sr. Student Representative Brewster reported on several items. He reported on attending the Gates Foundation Roundtable along
with another student.
The Roundtable focused on improving postsecondary success for traditionally underserved students. We discussed the
disparities in post-secondary education access, especially among low-income and minority students, highlighting data that
showed only 50% of students from low-income backgrounds pursue post-secondary education, compared to 78% of their
wealthier peers.
Definition of Post-Secondary Success: The Education Roundtable defines post-secondary success as empowering each
student to earn a credential that guarantees upward mobility and financial stability, which is critical since 60% of jobs now
require some form of post-secondary education.
Impact of AI on Job Market: A key point was the discussion on how AI will disproportionately affect jobs in the service
sector, which employs a significant portion of youth without post-secondary education. The Bureau of Labor Statistics
projects that 65% of jobs in the service industry could be automated by 2035, raising concerns about future job security
for students without advanced skills.

Student Input on Inspiration: In a survey presented during the event, 75% of students cited a lack of financial support as
their primary barrier to pursuing post-secondary education. However, students expressed that mentorship programs
increased their likelihood of enrolling in college by 30%.
Case Study - Oregon Low-Income School: A case study from an Oregon rural school was shared, which managed to
propel 85% of its students into higher education, even though 70% of the student population came from low-income
families. The success was attributed to focused mentorship and school leadership setting high expectations for all
students.
Data on Postsecondary Credentials: We learned that only 60% of students in Washington who start a post-secondary
program finish with a credential within 6 years. This completion rate is much lower among underrepresented groups, with
Black and Hispanic students graduating at rates 15% lower than their white counterparts.
Shared his contribution to the newsletter.
"Attending the Education Roundtable gave me new insights into the changing job market and its relation to post-secondary
education. As we discussed how AI is impacting jobs, particularly in the service sector, I realized how this will disproportionately
affect youth who don’t have the support systems needed for the pursuit of post-secondary success. This showed me just how
important it is to have high expectations for all students, in the name of our success and future."
She reflected on how attending the Gates Foundation's Education Roundtable made her feel supported and hopeful due to the
proactive efforts of educational leaders advocating for students' success. The discussion on inspiration resonated with her,
leaving her motivated to create positive change for others and eager to continue advocating in future events.
He shared he met with Director Byrdo to discuss and plan for the Superintendent Student Advisory Board (SSAB).
SSAB Prep Meeting – 9/16 Summary
Recruitment:
Continue: Lunchroom visits, emails, social media (AB), staff bulletins.
New this year: Classroom presentations, Instagram page.
Updated application: Google Form, no recommendation required, demographic info included.
Structure for 2024-25:
Theme: Safety (tentative).
Monthly meetings with members.
Quarterly R&E lead meetings.
Key Dates:
10/2: Welcome Back (2023-24 members).
10/9: Launch meeting.
October: Anti-Bias Discipline discussion. (RE)
He shared that he with Director Larson and David Knight, Education Specialist, University of Washington to work on the school
funding presentation which is being presented at the WSSDA Annual Conference. The presentation will focus on funding
disparities and equality vs equity.
He is currently crafting his part of the presentation on the student perspective/experience aspect of this issue
B. Superintendent Report
Dr. Pedroza shared several updates.
Happy first month of the year! We had a calm start to the school year and while there are always things to focus on, overall
things smoothed out thanks to the incredible staff and leaders in our schools.
Here are other updates:
Updates:
There has been an uptick in absences due to COVID-19. The latest guidance on COVID-19 and other respiratory
infections, like the flu or RSV, has simplified protocols for returning to work. Staff, please review the CDC guidelines in the
upcoming Staff Weekly Bulleting.
Open Houses have been in full swing! Tukwila Elementary and Showalter Middle School held their events over the last
two weeks. Cascade View is this Thursday, September 26th. Foster High School is October 3rd and Thorndyke
Elementary’s event is October 10th.
September 17th was National IT Professionals Day, thank you to our IT Department for all you for our district!
National Hispanic/Latino Heritage Month began September 15th to October 15th – excited to see all we do to support our
Latino cultures.
Thank you to our Security team, school and district staff for your focus on safety! There is a social media threat to
schools across the nation and we are communicating with our local districts to ensure we have the information needed.
This Friday, members of our staff will be part of a panel focused on support for our refugee students at the Refugee
Community Building Conference! I want to thank Mr. Lopez Chavez, Ms. Abdow, Mr. Christopher, Dr. Fremstad, and Dr.
Proctor for your continued focus on our students.
Transportation is a growing concern around our elementary schools, parents please follow the guidelines of your principals
for drop off and pick up! We are working with the City of Tukwila and thank the police officers for their presence and
support.
Our own Julie Herdt, our MKV Quality Specialist who won the honor of PSESD’s Classified Staff of the Year, will be honored
this Saturday in Olympia, Washington. She will be there with the other 7 honorees where the state-classified employee of
the year will be announced along with the certificated staff of the year. We wish you the best Julie!
SRO Officers started in our schools, there is currently one supporting both schools but both principals report it's going
well.

C. Board of Directors Report
Director Kruller reported on the WSSDA General Assembly. Although she was not able to attend, she did follow several issues.
Director Kruller reported on a safety/security concern mentioned on social media. The question asked on social media was "When
we have a threat situation are we following some protocols around keeping the kids in the schools." What are the protocols for
security and safety threats? As a new Board Director, I am curious about the differences. It was great to hear your report on
traffic changes. We do hear from the neighborhood. There are letters and other things that are coming your direction from
faculty and staff but also hearing from neighbors. One of the questions I was not able to answer outright was "Did we remove
the traffic control at Cascade View?" It appears so. Is this because we can't staff it, or because we decided that program wasn't
what we are supporting? Is it not safe for our students? We can discuss this offline.
Superintendent Pedroza shared that we talked about all of the elementary schools. One of them has a standing volunteer
workforce, and the other one is working on getting their safety patrols up. In the meantime, we have mitigated with extra
staffing resources for any schools that are lacking with either safety patrol or consistent adult outside. We will continue funding
until either one of those items is put into place.
Director Simpson - No report
Director Hoover reported visiting Thorndyke, specifically during the before and after school programs. They shared that although
the enrollment is low, they felt pleased that the program was there. They shared that the Boys & Girls Club is working in
partnership with the schools to try and figure out what the best process is for increasing enrollment. They shared they have
already been working on some other strategies to help support that. There may be a need to do some recalibrating as a district
when it comes to partnerships with after-school programs. The after-school programs that we have had in our schools have
been connected to the 21st Century Grant which typically requires something of the school to be able to support some of those
programs. This is a different type of program and it is not the responsibility of anyone in the school building, i.e. staff,
administrator, etc. to staff or support the programs. We need to really figure out what it looks like to give that program some
autonomy as well as provide the support that is needed, whether that is space or resources to have what they need to be able to
fully implement a high-quality after-school program. One item that came up in their discussion with the staff at the after-school
program is operating that after-school program when school is not in session, i.e. non-school days, not holidays. They shared
that we need to figure out what we can put in place to ensure that they have access to a building, even if that means
consolidating all three (3) elementary schools into one for the non-school days or when we are on break.
.
Director Proctor reported that he is glad to see some effort is being made in regard to the congestion at the drop-off and pick-up
times for Thorndyke Elementary.
Director Larson reported on several items. There have been articles in the paper recently regarding federal funding for students
during the time of COVID-19 and how a lot of schools were unable to spend all of the funding received. He is happy to report
that our district was able to spend all of the ESSER monies received. He reported on attending the Showalter Middle School Open
House. It was well attended and they did a nice job. They had translators there for seven (7) of our top languages including
Portuguese. The School Resource Officer was there talking to people and students. On October 3rd Director Larson will be
attending a focus group at OSPI related to how we will measure students who qualify for free and reduced lunch or poverty rates
going forward. A lot of funding is tied to how that is measured. Any methods they come up with will be good for us and
accurate. He reported on attending WSSDA General Assembly. This is a meeting where we discuss and then vote on which
issues to advocate for the upcoming legislative session. One of the big topics that was discussed is this current movement to
push forward local control. The reason this is coming up is because the state has been passing at a legislative level, mandates
around inclusive curriculum for LGBTQ+++, racial inclusion, etc. there is an element in the state that does not want to include
this type of curriculum, so their approach is to push for local control and say local control should override any of those kinds of
issues. This was defeated. One of the issues we submitted was to legal options for dealing with the state's underfunding. This
issue did pass, however, the other issue we submitted, to have an Inclusive Equity statement, did not pass.
Director Larson shared that the next step in the process is to have Districts review the list of Legislative positions and pick their
top ten (10) for submission. This is a quick preview, and the document will come back for further discussion at the next Board
meeting. One issue that we have discussed in the Attract, Recruit and Retain Diverse School Board Members. Two years ago, in
2022, there was a bill in the Senate to allow permanent residents to apply to sit on the School Board. Director Larson shared
that this was discussed last year at the WSSDA General Assembly and was voted down. What would be more effective is to
submit a letter to our local legislators requesting that they bring this back and reintroduce it. There is already a WASA position
in support of this. A draft letter is included as an attachment.
State Superintendent Chris Reykdahl shared his budget requests for the year, which includes $2.9 billion dollars of new funding
for schools. This addtional funding would be used to fund Special Education, Maintenance, Operations (MSOC), Transportation
and LAP High-Poverty.
5. Consent Agenda
A. Approval of Minutes from the August 27, 2024 Board Meeting
B. Approval of Minutes from the September 10, 2024 Board Meeting
C. Approval of Warrants (General Fund, Capital Projects Fund, Associated Student Body Program Fund, Vouchers
and Debt Service payments) (REVIEWED BY DIRECTORS KRULLER and LARSON)
Director Kruller made a motion to approve the Consent Agenda.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.

All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
6. Board Discussion
A. Board Goals
The Board resumed discussion on their 24-25 goals.
Goal #1 - Becoming an Anti-Racist District
Goal #2 - Increasing Community Input
Action Steps:
Have lunch at schools
Vsit school in your district - Reactivate the School Assignment Policy y
Visit civics class and other classrooms
Attend family nights
Attend open houses
Attend Student Advisory Committee
Attend R&E meetings
Plan Town Hall
Connect with Liasiions to connect with parents and families
Goal #3 - Fiscal Oversight
Action Steps:
Update policy to include checkpoints to ensure the Board is aware of any "dips" in the fund balance.
Create process/procedure to address a fund balance "dip".
President Hoover suggested additional discussion at a future Board Work Session.
7. Presentations
There were no presentations.
8. Questions Only - Presentations
A. 2023-2024 Financial Forecast
B. Year-End Assessment Update (SBAC) - Report and Analysis
Director Larson commented that this report seems like a data dump. We do have strategic plan goals around SBAC and would
expect to see if we did or did not meet those goals. He shared that he did an analysis of the data and found that we meet the
goals for reading and math. We increased 3% in reading and were down in math by 1%. In science, we exceeded the goal by
31% which is something to celebrate. Director Larson shared that we need to see more of a SWOT analysis. What is or isn't
working? Why are there gaps? What is causing the gaps? How do we eliminate the gaps? What is impacting the data?
President Hoover added that they would like to see how can we get some other form of information that shows the brilliance of
our diverse students and demonstrates their takeaways of knowledge, rather than just these numbers on a paper that just
highlights the disparities based on the standardized test. Additionally, what are we doing to think outside the box that maybe has
never been done before, something innovative in regard to discipline and interventions? We must to something different if we
want to take steps towards educational justice.
Director Simpson asked when moving students to the next grade when they're not graded are we moving kids through the grade
systems? He shared that he doesn't see anything here that shows any student that is at 80%. What is the district's stance on
getting kids through the system when they are not prepared? Chief Whitbeck shared that we do have a promotion policy. We
consider retention as a last resort due to a number of factors. We must consider the emotional welfare of the student who is told
they are not advancing to the next grade. Younger students do not understand what it means to repeat a grade. In addition
there are social development factors as well as English not being their native language. We look at growth over time.
Director Simpson asked how are we preparing our students for the future?
Director Proctor agrees with proficiency, however we need to not disregard social-emotional needs.
Superintendent Pedroza shared information on Policy No. 2421. This is a school-level decision and is based on input from the
multi-disciplinary team. The team supports through intervention, so when students are struggling, there is a process in place at
the school level that they should go through to actually retain. Factors that get ruled out for retention of a student are
multilingual, severe homelessness, and Special Education services or a 504 plan. At this time, over 50% of our students qualify
under these factors. This team looks at multiple data points, SBA, i-Ready, classroom assessments, etc.

President Hoover suggested adding SBAC Report and analysis to a future work session once we have the data, review policy,
etc.
C. ML Report - Dual, Heritage, ML, Refugee Afghan Student Success
President Hoover asked how are we adjusting the support that we have with our Community Liaisons to accommodate the
increase or decrease in languages. Superintendent Pedroza shared that we did reduce from seven to four. Currently, we are
working on some of our grants and trying to figure out how to renegotiate some of those grants to get some FTE, as well as
some other things. In addition, there is another grant opportunity coming up that we plan on applying for. Most of the liaisons
are still in the district, albeit in a different positon.
D. LAP High Poverty Report
E. Field Trips, Excursions and Outdoor Education per Policy 2320
F. Unemployment Compensation Program - per Policy 6530
9. Action Items
A. Approval of Human Resources Staffing Report
Director Simpson made a motion to approve the Human Resources Staffing Report.
Director Proctor seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
B. Approval of Policy 1250 - Student Representative to the Board of Directors
Director Kruller made a motion to approve Policy No. 1250.
Director Proctor seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
C. Approval of TSD’s Transitional Bilingual Instructional Program Form Package
Director Larson made a motion to approve TSD's Transitional Bilingual Instructional Program Form Package.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
10. Public Comment
A. Public Comment
President Hoover called for Public Comment.
There were no public comments.
11. Executive Session
There were no items for Executive Session.
12. Adjourn
A. Adjourn
Director Kruller made a motion to adjourn the meeting.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
President Hoover adjourned the meeting at 8:39 p.m.

