Public Hearing (5:30 p.m.) (Tuesday, August 13, 2024)
Generated by Deborah Kohr on Thursday, August 8, 2024
1. Call To Order
A. Call to Order
Director Larson called the Public Hearing to order at 530 p.m.
B. Roll Call
Director Larson called Roll Call.
Board Directors present:
President Hoover
Director Larson
Director Kruller
Director Proctor
Board Directors absent:
Director Simpson
C. Welcome Guests
Director Larson welcomed guests.
Guests:
Dr. Concie Pedroza
Deborah Kohr
Amy Fleming
Naomi Byrdo
Joe Camacho
Pam Bila
Doc
Grace Saturnino
2. Public Hearing
A. 2024-2025 Budget
Director Larson called for Public Comments on the 2024-2025 Budget.
Joe Camacho - FHS Staff - Shared the following questions with the Board regarding the 24-25 budget:
1. With the addition of activities 23, 26, and 73 to the allowed expenditures for CTE what impacts can we expect to the CTE
program and budget? (Principals Office, Health and Related Services, information services)
CFO Fleming shared that at this time we anticipate minimal impact. In previous years, we were charging a portion of principal to
activity 21 (supervision) since activity 23 (principal) was not open. This was a common practice for all school districts around
the state.
2. Page 15 of the 24-25 budget shows a decrease in the vocational education budget- what caused the decrease and what
impacts do you anticipate this will have?
CFO Fleming shared that the CTE funding is directly tied to total enrollment of the district. Because we have anticipated
enrollment loss compared to 23-24, CTE funding is lower.
3. What is the percentage of the carry-over limitation for CTE?
CFO Fleming shared that the carry-over limitation for CTE is 10%.
4. What happens to funds that are carried over? Are those funds still restricted by the CTE expenditure limitations?
CFO Fleming shared that CTE funds that are carried over can only be spent on CTE-related expenditures in the following year.
We are not allowed to spend carryover on any other expenditure category.
5. What is the limit for indirect costs that can be charged to CTE?
CFO Fleming shared that the limit for indirect costs that can be charged to CTE is 5%.

6. What does restricted revenue mean?
CFO Fleming shared that restricted revenue means the revenue can only be used for its intended purpose. That means the
revenue we receive for CTE can only be spent on CTE-eligible expenditures.
3. Adjourn
A. Adjourn
Director Kruller made a motion to adjourn the Board Work Session.
Director Hoover seconded the motion
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
Director Larson adjourned the Public Hearing at 6:00 p.m.

