Regular Board Meeting - Virtual via Zoom & In-Person (6:00 p.m.) (Tuesday, August 27, 2024)
Generated by Deborah Kohr on Monday, August 26, 2024
1. Call To Order
A. Call to Order
President Hoover called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
B. Roll Call
President Hoover called Roll Call.
Board Directors Present:
Director Larson
President Hoover
Director Kruller
Board Directors Absent:
Director Proctor
Student Representatives Present:
Alex Brewster
C. Welcome Guests
Guests:
Dr. Concie Pedroza
Deborah Kohr
Andra Maughan
Brandon Eastman
Danielle Eastman
Brent Nichols
Stacy Lappin
Scott Whitbeck
Aaron Draganov
Amy Fleming
Naomi Byrdo
Robin Allsopp
Dr. Jessica Proctor
Silvia Dicus Mora
Franklin Z
Community Member
Grace Saturnino
Courtney Martinez
Flor Vanessa Garcia Eligio
Morgan Music
Rosa Puche - One America
D. Land Recognition - Director Kruller
Director Kruller conducted the Land Acknowledgement.
E. Flag Salute
President Hoover led the room in the Pledge of Allegiance.
2. Approval of Agenda
A. Approval of the Agenda for the August 27, 2024 Regular Board Meeting
Director Larson made a motion to approve the agenda for the August 27, 2020 Regular Board Meeting.
Director Kruller seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
3. Public Comment
A. Public Comment

Robin Allsopp, Secretary, Tukwila Elementary - Upon the approval of the Organization Chart, will names be added to the positions
on the final document?
Dr. Pedroza shared that we will add names to the approved Organization Chart.
4. Reports
A. Student Representatives Report
Sr. Representative Alex Brewster reported that he will be participating in the upcoming Education Round Table in September. This
ensures that student perspectives are integrated into discussions that shape our state's post-secondary education and college
success. Additionally, he shared that he developed and prepared a presentation for the All Staff Kickoff on the Superintendent's
Student Advisory Committee.
B. Superintendent Report
Dr. Pedroza shared the following updates:
We are ready and working behind the scenes for a positive and good start to the year. We are launching the focus on our
strategic plan which includes a focus on:
High expectations for all
Engaged Learners
Relationships
Equity & Empathy
Here are other updates:
All staff kick-off is tomorrow for ALL staff in Tukwila School District. Our focus is on restorative healing with Maestro Tello,
he is an award-wining author and we are excited for him to bring this important work to the district.
All buildings are open to families, please reach to those who may need assistance with enrollment. Our signs are
everywhere!
School starts this Tuesday on September 3rd for Kindergarten through 12th grade. It is an early release for Kindergarten
students.
Preschool starts on the 9th of September.
Photographers will be present outside of our buildings to capture the joy of the first day of school.
Please take a look at our website for our Back to School Guide.
If you are not getting communications from your schools, please make sure your information is updated on the First Day
packets, this is where we update all of the information in our system.
We are excited to welcome back our families and students for the fall.
C. Board of Directors Report
Director Kruller shared that she is involved with the Tukwila Children's Foundation (TCF) and we are working with a very heavy
focus on schools this year. TCF was invited to an equity in education event where they were handing out backpacks, supplies,
etc. She reported on helping with the delivery of over 300 donated backpacks to schools. Additionally, she shared that she will
be attending the All Staff Kick-Off tomorrow.
Director Simpson - No Report
Director Hoover - No Report
Director Larson reported on Education Funding. The League of Education Voters came out with a report titled Underfunded and
Unsustainable. The report did have information on the inequitable funding. Equity in Education is gearing up for a very
aggressive campaign. Hopefully, there will be more pressure on our legislature for more equitable funding. He shared that he
and CAO Whitbeck met and had a conversation surounding data, with a focus on growth data. Hopefully, this will be shared
more in i-Ready reports, etc. He shared that he, along with Director Kruller, and EA Kohr met and worked on the BOD priorities.
There are several policies for the Board to review which will come up as an agenda item.
5. Consent Agenda
A. Approval of Minutes from the July 23, 2024 Board Meeting
B. Approval of Minutes from the August 13, 2024 Public Hearing
C. Approval of Minutes from the August 13, 2024 Board Work Session
D. Approval of Warrants (General Fund, Capital Projects Fund, Associated Student Body Program Fund, Vouchers
and Debt Service payments) (REVIEWED BY DIRECTORS HOOVER and SIMPSON)

Director Larson made a motion to approve the Consent Agenda.
Director Kruller seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
6. Presentations
A. Belong Partners - Report
Stacy Lappin with Belong Partners, shared an overview, along with data, for the 23-24 school year. Highlights included:
Vision, purpose, and approach
Work includes integrating three (3) core elements: Data for systematic reflection, Social Emotional Learning, and
restorative discipline
Foundational pieces for adults and students include, safety, belonging, and I matter.
Moving from compliance to community
Professional Development, Data, Social Emotional Learning and Restorative discipline
For 23-24, several sessions (coaching, professional development) were conducted at each school.
For 24 - 25:
Professional Development included Principals, Admin. Team, Social Workers, HOPE team up to 15 hours through the 2425 school year.
School staff will have several sessions, including on one or two SMART Wednesdays.
Coaching and Suppor for SEL & Systems Change
Custom session designed to support educators or ESPs with social-emotional learning, classroom leadership, and
restorative discipline
Developed based on the needs of each school in response to data, lagging skills for adults or students.
Director Larson commented that he was looking for street data, i.e data that is coming from students. How do we get students
involved in this process?
President Hoover asked does your work, specifically with teachers her in Tukwila, how are you using that culturally responsive
lens to really disrupt and navigate through the frame of whiteness? Ms. Lappin shared that we look at what tools are needed for
students to bring their whole individual identity into this commuity and that's the lens that we look for social learning. Our work
includes coaching educators to look at and practice through the lens of how is my bias affecting this decision.
B. Discipline Plan and Report
Andra Maughan provided an extensive overview on the discipline report.
Director Larson would like to delve deeper into the bullying/harassment data. It is much smaller than what is being reported by
students.
7. Board Discussion
A. Board Calendar - 2024-2025
President Hoover recommended removing the November 9th Saturday meeting due to several meetings including WSSDA annual
conference.
B. Board Goals
Director Kruller made a motion to postpone to the September 10th Board Meeting.
Director Hoover seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
C. WSSDA General Assembly Voting
Director Larson shared information regarding the WSSDA General Assembly Voting on legislative issues. Director Larson shared
there are several issues under consideration. A controversial on this year is what is called Local Control. There are a bunch of
districts that want WSSDA to take the position that nothing is more important than local control. The legislature has passed in
recent years very inclusive requirements for districts to include racial history and LGBTQ people in this history books. There are
people who do not want to comply with this and are bringing up the issue of local control saying that they can quash that request
and local control rules will allow that. The proposition has gone through the Committees and the Committees have voted against
Local Controls with a "do not pass" recommendation before it goes to the full assembly. This is an opportunity for the Board to
review, discuss, and vote on what issues (up to 10) we want WSSDA to advocate for this year during the legislative session.

President Hoover asked if WSSDA would take a stance on eligibility to become a Board Director. Director Larson shared he would
have to look to see if there is a position around that. At this point, it is too late to put a new request on the list. We can,
however, put it up for consideration for next year.
D. Class Sizes
President Hoover shared that during several listening sessions, parents, students, and staff expressed concerns about class sizes
at the high school - Chief Whitbeck shared that it is a little more complicated at the secondary level because depending on the
subject matter and some courses being advanced courses, there are not going to be 30 students who need a certain advanced
course or CTE class. There is more variance od clss size per class session in high school than you would see in elementary.
President Hoover asked if there was a max number of students per class, i.e no class would ever have more than X. Chief
Whitbeck shared, no, we do not have a max. Currently, we have a couple of classes approaching 35 students and we do not
want to go above that.
Superintendent Pedroza shared that we have a collective bargaining agreement that has a list of class sizes that we follow. If
class size goes above the number listed in the agreement, then there is a remedy, i.e. additional students mean additional costs
paid to teachers.
E. 2024-2025 Budget
Director Larson asked for confirmation that the board is supposed to approve the budget with a negative balance. Chief Fleming
shared we have reached out to PSESD and OSPI. there are two (2) options available. They can extend our binding conditions
for the 24-25 ending fund balance, but will not extend the 4% fund balance for another year. The other option is they could
decide to have financial oversight, which they are not considering at this time due to the amount of work and progress that has
been made on the budget.
Director Larson shared that he wants the district to have an internal goal of paying off our loan.
President Hoover shared that the district is working on adding additional internal controls to ensure that when reach our 6% fund
balance as stated in our policy, we will be able to sustain it. They made a suggestion that once the district is out of binding
conditions, it would be great to start cataloging all of the supports that have been put in place to ensure there is no movement in
that direction again.
Director Larson shared that he would like to see changes in our policies to ensure that the Board can recognize that the budget
might be heading into a negative status. He shared he would like to have something related to the fund balance, i.e. if the fund
balance starts edging down, then that triggers a discussion with the Board as to why, next steps, etc.
President Hoover thanked Chief Fleming for coming to our district and stepping in to help us correct our budget and bring us
closer to being fiscally sound.
8. Questions Only - Presentations
A. Monthly Financial Statement - July 2024
B. Superintendent Student Advisory Committee Update
Sr. Representative Brewster shared a quick presentation on the work and accomplishments of the 23-24 Superintendent Advisory
Committee.
President Hoover asked if recruitment had begun for next year. Are most members returning? Sr. Rep. Brewster shared that
since we are not back to school yet, hopefully, current members will remain for the following year because they were really
engaged! We are planning to still keep applications open for this year for any additional students who want to apply as there are
going to be more students eligible as they move to 5th grade. In addition, there may be students who did not have the time to
participate last year and they may have that time this year. Superintendent Pedroza shared that the goal was to make the
committee a little bigger and broader. We actually had applicants from the special needs community so we're really trying to
think through what this representation would look like through all angles of our system.
C. 2023-2024 Financial Forecast
D. Professional, Civic, and Service Organization Membership Report
Director Larson asked if WERA was included in this list? It is an assessment piece. Executive Director Draganov shared that he
would follow up on this.
Director Larson requested that WSSDA is added to this list/report.
E. Early Withdrawal Report

F. Summer School - Data and Analysis
Brittny LaRoca, Summer School Coordinator, shared an overview of summer school for the 23-24 school year. This year had
limited funding, so the focus was on K-5 as well as credit recovery for secondary students.
The family liaisons were extremely helpful with attendance, enrollment, etc.
President Hoover suggested additional communication surrounding summer school so students and parents have time to read
through the information, get their questions answered, and register their student if needed.
Superintendent Pedroza shared that she is looking at ways to expand the program to serve more students and provide a process
for eligibility,etc. She shared that summer school information will be going out earlier this year.
9. Action Items
A. Approval of Human Resources Staffing Report
Director Larson made a motion to approve the Human Resources Staffing Report.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
B. Approval of Temporary Out of Endorsement Request
Director Larson made a motion to approve the Temporary Out of Endorsement Request.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
C. Approval of Resolution No. 953 - Adopting the 2024-2025 Budget
Director Kruller made a motion to approve Resolution No. 953 - Adopting the 2024-2025 Budget.
Director Larson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
D. Approval of NWRDC Membership Agreement 24-25
Director Kruller made a motion to approve the NWRDC Membership Agreement 24-25.
Director Larson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
E. Approval of Resolution No. 954 - Adoption of HRA Plan with VEBA
Director Kruller made a motion to approve Resolution No. 954 - Adoption of the HRA Plan with VEBA.
Director Larson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
F. Approval of 2024-2025 Board Calendar
Director Larson made a motion to approve 24-25 Board Calendar as amended.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
G. Approval of Board Operating Agreements
Director Larson made a motion to approve the Board Operating Agreements.
Director Kruller seconded the motion.
The motion died on the floor.
President Hoover shared that they were unable to attend the meeting in which the agreements were discussed. Therefore, they
shared a couple of changes which included:
Under communication, replace "immediately" with "in a timely manner". Director Kruller offered "as soon as possible" as
an option. Further discussion is warranted.
Remove the Courageous Conversations pieces as the Board will be shifting and not utilizing these. As part of our antiracist goal, we will be creating/establishing our norms of practice.
There is no specific bucket around race and equity, which need to be included in this document.

With that in mind, additional discussion and work needs to be completed on this document before final approval.
President Hoover made a motion to table this item to a future meeting.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.
The vote was not unanimous.
Board Directors For:
President Hoover
Director Simpson
Director Larson
Board Directors Opposed:
Director Kruller.
The motion carried.
H. Approval of 2024-2025 Org. Chart
Director Larson made a motion to approve the 2024-2025 Org. Chart.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
I. Approval of Meal Prices - 2024-2025
Director Larson made a motion to approve Meal Prices for 2024-2025.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
J. Approval of Assessment Calendar - 2024-2025
Director Larson made a motion to approve the 2024-2025 Assessment Calendar.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
Director Kruller called Point of Order to clarify the motion she made earlier in the meeting. She stated that she did not ask to
table, but to postpone. She asked that the record is corrected on Agenda Item 7.B to reflect the word postpone, as stated in the
original motion.
10. Public Comment
A. Public Comment
President Hoover called for Public Comment.
There were no public comments.
11. Executive Session
There were no items for Executive Session.
12. Adjourn
A. Adjourn
Director Larson made a motion to adjourn the Board Meeting.
Director Kruller seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
President Hoover adjourned the meeting at 8:49 p.m.

