Special Board Meeting via Zoom and In-Person (5:15 p.m.) (Tuesday, February 13, 2024)
Generated by Deborah Kohr on Tuesday, February 13, 2024
1. Call To Order
A. Call to Order
President Hoover called the meeting to order at 5:15 p.m.
B. Roll Call
President Hoover called Roll Call.
Board Directors President:
President Hoover
Director Simpson
Director Larson
Director Proctor
Board Directors Absent:
None
C. Welcome Guests
President Hoover welcomed guests.
Guests:
Dr. Concie Pedroza
Deborah Kohr
Allison Deno
Naomi Byrdo
Kate Krueller
Scott Whitbeck
Andra Maughan
Aaron Draganov
Amy Fleming
Jeff Baker
Sally Jerome
2. Approval of Agenda
A. Approval of Agenda
Director Larson made a motion to approve the agenda.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
3. Action Item
A. Approval of Resolution No. 944 - Submitting and Certifying the 2022-2023 School Year Financial Statements to
the Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction (OSPI) and accepting binding conditions set forth by OSPI.
Director Larson made a motion to approve Resolution No. 944 - Submitting and Certifying the 2022-2023 school year financial
statement to the Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction (OSPI) and accepting binding conditions set forth by OSPI.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
Director Larson asked if this resolution was required by OSPI. Ms. Fleming, CFO confirmed that the resolution is a requirement of
OSPI. This resolution certifies that we are in binding conditions. Once the resolution is passed by the Board, OSPI will send an
official letter to the district. A draft of the letter was included in the documents for this meeting.
Director Simpson asked if the figure listed was accurate, and if so, that means by the end of August we will have a negative fund
balance of $4.3 million dollars. Ms. Fleming shared the $4.3 million is a projection and that we will be closer to $3.4 million. The
reason for the difference is that once the resolution is passed, $4.3 million will be the final number. Once we are officially in
binding conditions, OSPI will use that final number and we are not allowed to exceed that. We are continuing to analyze all
vendors to make sure that there are no additional payments that were not accounted for during this process.

Director Simpson asked when will we know the final numbers. Ms. Fleming shared that she would present a projection to the
Board at the February 27th meeting. This will not be the final number. Part of the steps during this process is to undergo a rebudget for the 2022-2023 school year. While the projection is $3.5 million, that final number may be larger after the rebudgeting process through PSESD and OSPI.
4. Adjourn
A. Adjourn
Director Proctor made a motion to adjourn the meeting.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
President Hoover adjourned the meeting at 5:27 p.m.

