Regular Board Meeting- via Zoom and In Person (5:30 p.m.) (Tuesday, December 12, 2023)
Generated by Deborah Kohr on Tuesday, December 12, 2023
1. Call To Order
A. Call to Order
President Hoover called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
B. Roll Call
President Hoover called Roll Call.
Board Directors Present:
President Hoover
Director Bolerjack
Director Simpson
Director Morris
Director Larson
Board Directors Absent:
None
Student Representatives Present:
Alex Brewster
Student Representatives Absent:
Dennis Nguyen
C. Welcome Guests
President Hoover welcomed guests.
Guests:
Dr. Concie Pedroza
Deborah Kohr
Andra Maughan
Aaron Draganov
Allison Deno
Liliana Cardenas
Jeff Baker
Scott Whitbeck
Monica Schell
Greg Woodard
Huni Nur
Joe Camacho
Robin Allsopp
Marcus iPhone
Maricel Haessig
Monica S. Vavilala
Susan Seabrooks
Dr. Tenesha Fremstad
Angela Meyer
Brett Christopher
Courtney Martinez
Danielle Eastman
Patrick Murphy
Stacy Hoover
D. Welcome Message - Director Larson
Director Larson shared the Community Agreements.
E. Land Recognition - Director Larson
Director Larson conducted the Land Acknowledgement.
F. Flag Salute
President Hoover led the room in the Pledge of Allegiance.
2. Approval of Agenda

A. Approval of the Agenda for the December 12, 2023 Regular Board Meeting
Director Morris made a motion to approve the Agenda for the December 12, 2023 Regular Board Meeting.
Director Larson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
3. Oath of Office
A. Oath of Office - T. Proctor
President Hoover conducted the Oath of Office for Rev. Terrence Proctor
President Hoover called a 10-minute recess at 5:38 p.m. to honor the exiting Board Directors.
President Hoover called the meeting back to order at 5:48 p.m.
4. Public Comment
A. Public Comment Protocol
President Hoover called for Public Comments.
Robin Allsopp - Tukwila Elementary - Ms. Allsopp thanked Directors Bolerjack and Morris for all they have done for the school
Board, our community, students, families, and staff. We appreciate you very much. To Board Directors Proctor and Simpson,
welcome aboard. I know that you are going to do great things. I look forward to the direction we are heading.
5. Reports
A. Student Representatives
Jr. Student Rep. Brewster shared concerns from students regarding recent incidents and lockdowns. Students shared concerns
regarding safety at our schools. Some of the questions asked from students and parents were:
Is school a really safe place for them?
How does the sytem works around how people get out of the buildings?
B. Superintendent Report
We are getting ready for winter break, as a reminder this Friday is an early release day. Please note that the district building is
open next week until Thursday, December 21st. The district building will open after January 2nd, the first day back at
school. For parents and community, I want to thank you for reaching out if there are questions and concerns. Please
communicate with your principal first for any school-related issues and if you need follow-up or if something is unresolved, please
contact Scott Whitbeck for elementary schools or myself for the middle or high school. We want a resolution to your concern and
want to ensure the principals are part of the solution to support families and students. Congratulations to our own Jorge Torres,
Foster High School Counselor who has been named Washington State Counselor of the Year and will heading to compete for the
American School Counselor Association national counselor of the year! We are so excited for this honor! I want to offer my
condolences to the family and staff of one of our middle school students who recently passed away from medical complications.
Once we receive information from the family, we will communicate how we can support them. Families – we sent out the
monthly newsletter with dates and information. Please let us know if you are not getting it, we also are posting them on the
district website.
Race & Equity Update:
We held today our racial equity training we discussed how we continue to hold up inequities in our system. A topic we discussed
was in disciplinary practices and how we can continue to prioritize relationships and how we continue to hold ourselves
accountable to disrupting bias in disciplinary practices.
Health Update:
There has been an increase in cases of stomach illness in Tukwila Elementary, but attendance has been improving since last
week. there has been one confirmed case of varicella at Foster. Public Health has been notified about both and we are continuing
to monitor. Today the district received news that Stepping Stone Pediatrics needs to postpone the vaccine clinic that is scheduled
to take place at Cascade View on Wednesday, December 13th. We will share the rescheduled clinic date as soon as it is
determined. We apologize for any inconvenience this may cause.
C. Directors Reports
Director Larson reported on attending the Foster Theater Group Winter event titled Ghost in the Machine. It was a great play and
very timely. It is about an intelligent life living inside of your phones. It was done very well and each student was able to show
their acting skills. He shared that he would like to see more advertising, in particular for the senior housing (SHAG) which is
approximately one (1) block away. Additionally, some updates to the stage, lights, seating, etc. in the PAC, would improve the
quality of performances. We could look at getting grants, and other sources of funding. Director Larson shared that the City of
Tukwila's project is to provide Wi-Fi access to our students at home. He commented that he would love to hear from our staff
about the aspect of this project. He shared he spoke with the vendor and they're going to be distributing 1200 Chromebooks to
the students. How are they going to go about deciding which students receive the laptops, and will they be distributed equitably?
He shared that his understanding is that there will just be one application on the platform - Google Classrooms. How was that
decision arrived at? He would love to hear feedback from students about how helpful they would consider this to be. Director

Larson shared that he has asked previously for a briefing on this project and it implementation. He again requested a briefing on
this project. Director Larson shared that it has been a while since we have had a joint meeting with Tukwila City Council. This
would be a good time to have one as there are new council members and a new mayor. Director Larson requested that a joint
meeting be scheduled soon. Director Larson commented on the HR Staff report. He noticed that the CV STEM Lab Teacher
resigned. He shared that this is a huge loss for the district and asked what the next steps were to replace this position at a
districtwide level as opposed to a building level. This is a specialized position and it is a hope that students at Cascade View can
get an equally high-quality experience with the Creative Learning Labs as all of the other students receive. Director Larson
shared that he attended a WERA Convention. They primarily focus on education data. there was a really good discussion on
Artificial Intelligence which all districts are having to figure out how to incorporate into the district. There are a variety of ways
to do that. Some districts have banned the use of AI tools. The discussion focused on how to embrace the tools and use them in
a way that's helpful for students. One creative solution mentioned was to have students show their work on how they interacted
with the tools.
President Hoover shared they have been in contact with staff at PSESD regarding professional development opportunities for the
Board in the new year. This is a great opportunity for us as a new Board together to really align ourselves in that work. they
reported that safety has been on their mind a lot. The Safety and Inclusion task force has just wrapped up for the year and we
will hear a little bit. Additionally, we had a great meeting with U.W. regarding SROs on campus. There will be more information
presented later in this meeting.
Director Simpson - No report
Director Proctor - No report.
6. Consent Agenda
A. Approval of Minutes from the November 28, 2023 Board Meeting
B. Approval of Warrants (General Fund, Capital Projects Fund, Associated Student Body Program Fund, Vouchers
and Debt Service payments) (REVIEWED BY DIRECTORS HOOVER and SIMPSON))
Director Larson made a motion to approve the Consent Agenda.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
7. Board Discussion
A. Proposed Letter to Legislators
Director Larson shared a letter with the Board that he would like to submit to our 11th District Legislators. Currently, the district
is not in good financial standing. There are several reasons for this, but the biggest one is that there is an inequity in funding, it
is not based on student needs. The state is funding the entire system on needs-based funding. We want to make the legislators
representing our district aware of the funding needs before their session begins. This letter addresses the financial needs of our
districts and requests specific areas in need of full funding, i.e. substitutes, insurance, etc. Other districts are also submitting
letters like this to their local legislators. Director Larson asked if any directors had any changes. If not, at the end of the
meeting, if they want to sign it, please do and he will mail it.
8. Questions Only - Presentations
A. Grants Update - Quarterly
Director Larson commented on the Outdoor Education Camp program. This is a 5th-grade camp program that we have had for
many years. The legislature has recognized the importance of this and therefore has made partial funding available. Are there
any grants available to fully fund this program? What is the plan for this program?
Dr. Pedroza shared that she has met with several teachers to gauge their interest. There were a few who were interested and
several that were still a little hesitant. Additionally, she shared that she had a meeting with the Grant Director at OSPI, but it had
to be rescheduled due to illness. The meeting has been rescheduled for the second week in January.
President Hoover asked about looking into grants for safety, social emotional, etc. Dr. Pedroza shared that we have applied for all
eligible grants.
B. School Safety Report
Director Larson commented that there is some confusion about lockdowns, i.e. modified and total lockdowns and what exactly
are the procedures. Are the procedures clear? Mr. Whitbeck, Chief Academic Officer, shared that the buildings have done a lot of
work to put together the plans as best as they can covering the required elements. The feedback received is very helpful. The
next steps would be to talk with our principals to find out what they are hearing from their staff about what is still uncertain so
that the procedure/process for each lockdown is clear and concise.
Director Simpson shared that we need to be more proactive as a district. We need to get to this point quickly. We have already
had four (4) lockdowns. How do we increase our staff awareness and get this information out so that we are prepared for any
future incidents? Mr. Whitbeck shared that the Safety Committee meets bi-monthly to discuss any safety concerns, review the
lockdown drills, refine the protocols and communicate to staff. Director Simpson shared that he would like to attend the next
safety meeting. Director Proctor shared the same sentiments as Director Simpson. He commented that we need clarity because

if leaders and staff are uncomfortable and unsure of the procedures, we will not be prepared for any future incidents. Director
Simpson shared a suggestion of using a 1/2 day without students and running drills with teachers/staff and getting feedback
from staff regarding those drills. Director Proctor asked what is the timeline. Staff need to provide input and practice the drills.
Director Simpson asked if we had officers on campus. Dr. Pedroza shared that we have two (2) security officers at Foster High
School and one (1) at Showalter Middle School. There have been requests for additional security and there is also a request for
SROs. This is all part of the system that we have to do and we're looking at the budget and deciding what actually should be our
priority when we are making decisions around safety.
President Hoover asked what is the feedback from staff after the incidents. How are staff feeling about the response that took
place? Mr. Whitbeck shared that a debrief is needed.
Jr. Rep Brewster commented that students need to understand the different procedures and terminology. We need to have a
universal curriculum for K-12. This would significantly decrease confusion and increase awareness.
C. Accreditation Update
President Hoover commented on the accreditation process. They shared that previously the district was working towards getting
all of the schools accredited, which required a lot of staff time, and cost the district approximately $11,000. Where are we in the
process? How much additional money was needed to complete this process? Mr. Whitbeck shared that the cost to the district
would be approximately $11,000 - $13,000 per each step of the accreditation process. He also shared that the state does not
require accreditation. If we are requested to continue this process, we would need to request proposals, find the funding in our
budget, and require staff to spend hours of time to provide information during this process, which is lengthy.
Director Larson shared that we did start this last year, and it wasn't required. After a lot of searching through records, it was
revealed that Foster High School was accredited. Is this a process that is obsolete? How does this affect students if we don't
pursue accreditation? Are there any colleges that look at student transcripts and say this is from an unaccredited high school
therefore we are going to downgrade. Does that happen?
Dr. Pedroza shared that the process we went through last year was a pre-approval process. After that, we would have gone
through the accreditation process which would of more than doubled the number of costs to the district at approximately
$30,000. This does not include any of the time of labor and additional resources needed. We align all of our courses and all of
our credits for our students for a diploma to the state. Our diploma in itself is a guarantee that these are all state-approved
accredited courses and that is acceptable to any university in the nation. The accreditation process, for a long time, was
something that a lot of districts did. Several districts are no longer participating in the accreditation process due to the cost, staff
time, and the lengthy procedure.
Director Larson shared that originally the plan to accreditate the whole district would be a benefit as it would lead to higherquality school improvement plans. Will we be using a school improvement plan framework? Dr. Pedroza shared that we currently
have four (4) schools that are already part of the state's school improvement plan process. This is required through all of the
assessments and all of the scores. We have asked our high school, which is the only school at different levels to use the same
framework. They have just created their school improvement plan in alignment with the other plan. We now have one template
for all of the school improvement plans. We have an OSPI coach who is working with all of the principals on school improvement
planning. They meet regularly aligning all of the work, and we are meeting with all of the schools to align the school
improvement plans with our strategic plan.
D. Alignment and Design of Instruction
Director Larson commented that we need to keep in mind that the state has an approved plan of curriculum for science, math,
and English and we need to make sure that we are meeting those requirements. We also need to take a holistic approach so we
can engage all of our students.
E. Safety and Inclusion Taskforce - Report
President Hoover shared a high-level overview. This task force was initiated by the Board as a way to look at a response to Title
IX and gender-based sexual violence prevention. The members of the task force have been meeting since 2022. The task force
was asked to provide recommendations.
Director Simpson commented that the coordinator position should be it own position and not combined with another position. Is
the task force recommending that this should be its own position? Monica Schell shared that a person coming into the
coordinator position should have experience and expertise on Title IX sexual assault prevention, etc. and there should be more
investment in Title IX as an entity. President Hoover shared that having a dedicated Title IX Coordinator would be ideal. As the
District does not currently have that position, there are several things that we can address at no cost to the District such as:
dedicated Title IX email address
updating the policy and procedures
online reporting form
free training through OSPI
Director Simpson commented that the current director needs to complete the free professional development training offered
through OSPI.
9. Presentations
A. Deferred Maintenance - McKinstry Presentation
Greg Woodard, Chief Financial Officer, presented on Deferred Maintenance. Highlights included:

Current Situation
The Tukwila School District currently has deferred maintenance of $19M. This figure includes items required by HB 1257
(Commercial Clean Buildings Performance Standard) and excludes the acquisition and installation costs for electric buses
and charging stations.
HB 1257 compliance is currently estimated at $6M
Washington State House Bill 1257 requires all buildings in the State of WA to meet certain energy benchmarks starting in
2027 for Foster and in 2028 for Tukwila, Thorndyke and Showalter. We expect that Cascade View due to its makeup of a
lot of small buildings may be required to comply by 2029 and the District can apply for an exemption for Cascade View if
the School District commits to building a new grade school to replace Cascade View.
Compliance includes upgrading HVAC units, and adding solar systems and energy management systems. The HVAC
upgrade cost shown in this presentation will accommodate MERV 11 filters. An upgrade to MERV 13 filters would be more
money, but the additional cost is not currently known.
Data collection needs to start one year prior to the deadline. Construction needs to be completed before data is collected.
Non-compliance by the target dates will incur penalties.
The district is applying for grants to acquire 15 electric buses and charging stations. Costs related to the electrical system
and underground wiring installation are unknown at this time.
Director Larson shared that he was very concerned about high-quality air in our buildings. The CDC recommends that our air
filtration system should be at MERV 13 filter. The recommendations from the CDC are related particularly to the various airborne diseases, i.e. COVID, flu, etc. Previously, a report was provided that stated we were at MERV 11 filters, however, in the
current presentation, it states that we are at MERV 8. Mr. Woodard shared that a decision was made to go back to MERV 8 filters
after COVID ended. The systems were originally designed closer to the MERV 8 level. The systems are stressed when we use
MERV 11 filters.
Director Larson asked how are we measuring the quality of the air in our buildings. How are we measuring the amount of
aerosols, etc.? He shared several ways the district could measure air quality:
Air exchange rates - five (5) exchanges per hour are the recommendation.
Merv filters - level 13 filters
Carbon Dioxide rates
Fine particles PM2.5 - smoke, etc.
Primary Funding Sources - Includes each funding source and what it will be used for within the District.
2023-2024 Priorities - Includes location, i.e. building, project, and estimated costs. The priorities are categorized by:
1. Safety
2. Legal and regulatory
3. Operational Necessity
4. Financial payback
HB 1257 Compliance Project - Includes location, project, and estimated costs. Total costs approximately $6 million.
Director Simpson asked what is the plan that would help us get back on track with our budget. Director Larson shared that 85%
of our budget is for staff and salaries, therefore the only way to get our budget back on track would be to have fewer people.
Director Simpson commented that if we are asking for more money, where is the money coming from to pay back the loan?
Dr. Pedroza shared the following information:
Letters to staff and community sent regarding the current budget - Chief Woodard will send to the Board.
February Work Session is focused on the budget and updating everyone on where we are currently and what we are
working on for the next steps.
We have instituted control measures/control points, which are shared weekly with staff, i.e. no food purchases unless
grant funded, pre-approval of extra time, etc.
Review of staffing costs
Enrollment review
Attending staff meetings to address any questions/concerns regarding the budget
Meeting with Union partners
The Board requested the scheduled budget review at the February Work Session be moved to January. The budget review will be
part of the Board Retreat scheduled for January 20th.
B. SRO Presentation
President Hoover provided a brief high-level history overview regarding School Resource Officers (SROs) in the Tukwila School
District. Susan Seabrook, Research Coordinator presented to the Board of Directors. The presentation (attached) highlighted
work done with the SRO project presented by Dr. Keith Hullenaar, UW, and the current directions of this work presented by Dr.
Sharon Laing, UW. Also in attendance are Monica S. Vavilala, UW, and Dr. Sahara Camhal, UW Tacoma.
The goal: To develop culturally competent solutions to school safety and policing that promote safe and equitable learning
environments for students of all races and ethnicities in Tukwila.
Highlights included:

Listening Sessions - FHS and SMS students, parents, teachers, principals, local community members, police officers,
family liaisons, and district administrators
Most participants surveyed wanted to continue with the SRO program
Most participants wanted to keep the program as in, while a smaller group wanted the program with changes
incorporated.
Reform of program - school safety, greater community engagement in SRO program, safe and equitable for all students.
MOU revisions - build relationships and trust, promote racial/ethnic equity, and increase school safety.
Holistic approach
Policy changes
Model evolution
Safety and well-being - physical, mental, spiritual
Populations - students, staff, and others defined by TSD, modifiable school-related factors and priorities
Feasibility, implementation, and sustainability of the program
Director Proctor shared that he has been working with FHS students for a while along with some holistic agencies. Optimistically,
he believes we are in a good space where even police departments are recognizing that they not only have work to do but have
begun changing how they show up. SRO officers are police officers. For them to serve as SRO officers, they first have to
volunteer for the SRO position and be trained to do this which is different than police training. When we start having these
conversations, we are now talking about intentionality. If I am an officer, how do I show up effectively? This is an opportunity
and at the same time, we cannot discount the historical impact of generations. We also cannot be so callous that we don't show
up to bridge that gap. We can make some adjustments, and develop relational trust and accountability to move forward.
President Hoover commented on the possibility of having the UW team join us at our Board retreat to have a conversation on
priorities. The next steps given from the previous meeting were to identify who are the key players or other people that need to
be present and involved in the conversation and identify priorities.
10. Action Items
A. Annual Organization of the Board
President Hoover called for nomination for President.
Director Larson nominated President Hoover for President.
Director Simpson seconded the nomination.
Director Hoover accepted the nomination.
Board Directors in Favor:
Director Simpson
Director Larson
Director Proctor
Director Hoover
Board Directors Opposed:
None
President Hoover called for nominations for Vice President.
Director Proctor nominated Director Simpson for Vice President.
Director Larson seconded the nomination.
Director Simpson accepted the nomination.
Board Directors in Favor:
Director Simpson
Director Larson
Director Proctor
Director Hoover
Board Directors Opposed:
None
B. Approval of Policy No. 2421 - Promotion Retention
Director Larson made a motion to approve Policy No. 2421 - Promotion Retention.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
C. Approval of Human Resources Staffing Report
Director Larson made a motion to approve the Human Resources Staffing Report.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.

The motion carried.
D. Approval of Resolution No. 940 - Interfund Loan
Director Larson made a motion to approve Resolution No. 940 - Interfund Loan
Director Simpson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
The Board of Directors requested the following items:
Plan of Staff RIF Tracking
Board Work Session - In-depth Budget Review February 2024
Clear plan/path for financial future
E. Approval of Surplus of Vehicle
Director Larson made a motion to approve Surplus of Vehicle.
Director Proctor seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
F. Approval of Levy Pro/Con Committee Members
Director Larson made a motion to approve Levy Pro/Con Committee Members.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
11. Public Comment
A. Public Comment Protocol
President Hoover called for Public Comments.
There were no public comments.
12. Executive Session
There were no items for Executive Session.
13. Adjourn
A. Adjourn
Director Larson made a motion to adjourn the Regular Board Meeting.
Director Simpson seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
President Hoover adjourned the meeting at 9:30 p.m.

