Board Work Session - via Zoom and In Person (3:00 p.m.) (Tuesday, August 13, 2024)
Generated by Deborah Kohr on Thursday, August 8, 2024
1. Call To Order
A. Call to Order
Director Larson called the meeting to order at 3:00 p.m.
B. Roll Call
Director Larson called Roll Call.
Board Directors Present:
Director Larson
Director Kruller
Director Proctor
Board Directors Absent:
President Hoover
Vice President Simpson
Student Representatives Present:
Alex Brewster
C. Welcome Guests
Director Larson welcomed guests.
Guests:
Dr. Concie Pedroza
Deborah Kohr
Naomi Byrdo
Scott Whitbeck
Gerrit - Phone
Courtney Martinez
Doc
Joe Camacho
2. Approval of Agenda
A. Approval of Agenda
Director Proctor made a motion to approve the agenda.
Director Kruller seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
3. Discussion Items
A. Board Calendar - 2024-2025
The Board reviewed and provided feedback on the DRAFT Board calendar.
Director Larson shared that he would like an additional board director to meet with EA Kohr and discuss the policies/reports listed
in the BOD priorities document.
Director Larson commented on the Board Presentation calendar regarding the budget development process. Currently, the
budget development process is scheduled for March. He shared that he would like that process to start at the beginning of the
year. This would be a process in which we collect student and community input throughout the year, i.e. Student Advisory
Committee, Parent Advisory Committee, BSU, etc. Additionally, he shared that the SIPs, strategic plan and budget need to be
more tightly connected. He also would like to have high-level education on the budget throughout the year, including the equity
in funding information. This information should be posted on the website as well.
Dr. Pedroza shared that based on the feedback received, a budget engagement plan will be shared with the Board at the first
meeting in September. At the March meeting, the Board will review the input and feedback received from engagement with
students, families, community, etc. in relation to the budget.
Director Kruller commented that the Board needs to have eight to ten questions/areas of focus for budget feedback.

Director Larson asked if we were able to look at the hits on the website to see how many people had looked at the budget
information. Director Brydo shared that she is working on getting this information.
Changes to the BOD priorities document:
College in High School - Add to FHS report
LRC2 Classroom - Add to Special Education Update
Remove the Achievement Index report - obsolete
Policy 6810 - Energy Management Education - Add to the Maint./Operations/Capital Projects update. The Board will need
to change the policy to reflect additional changes.
Policy 6801- Look for OSPI resolution
Policy 6640 - Retire policy
Policy 6600 - Clean up policy
Policy 6550 - Review and possible rewrite of policy
B. Operating Principles
Director Larson shared a quick overview of the history of this document.
Changes included:
Consistent capitalization for titles, i.e. Superintendent, etc.
Add the four agreements in Courageous Conversations to the document.
Under Accountability add "The Board will honor and conform to the Open Public Meetings Act regulations".
Under Accountability add Ethical Conduct: "The board commits to upholding the highest standards of ethical conduct,
making sure that decisions and actions are made in the best interest of students, free from conflicts of interest or
personal gain." Refer to existing policies in the Board handbook to align this statement better with the existing
policies. Neither a school Board Director nor a district officer (such as the Superintendent), may benefit directly or
indirectly, in any contract made by, through or under the supervision of the Directors or the Superintendent, except as
provided in Policy 1610.
Under Meeting Conduct add "Board members will actively listen to all presentations and discussions".
Under Communication add "All communications to, along with any responses representing the Board will immediately be
shared with all Board members. In matters where content contains protected information, high-level talking points will be
supplied to all Board members".
Director Kruller commented that in the Board Operating Agreement (BOA) Communications section nothing addresses Board
responses to/interaction with the public. There are many one-way communication paths that flow from the public to
communicate with the TSD Board. Communication is a two-way process. The BOA should contain language setting expectations
on shared knowledge of communications to the Board and any responses made by Board leaders or on behalf of the Board.
Similarly, shared knowledge of approaching public engagement events - along with either coordinated appearances that avoid
OPMA requirements or publish per the requirements that a Board quorum or more will appear at a public event needs to be
routinely addressed. Board Handbook materials and any associated policies need to be updated and approved. Start with Board
communications first. Policy on Board Communications needs to be compared, reconciled to contain the same language, and
approved by the Board as soon as possible.

C. Strategic Plan Update - Review
Superintendent Pedroza shared a brief overview and history of the 23-24 Strategic Plan.
Changes included:
Add TSD Anti-Racist Statement in the plan
Start collecting street-level data for all goals - SIPs
Value statement - safety, health, and basic needs met
Some of the goals need to be disaggregated further for better clarity and focus,i.e. - growth tracked effectively, students
two or more grade levels behind, etc.
Targeted universalism
MLL status - an average of five years - prioritize year-over-year reduction of students in MLL programs.
Bullying - cyber - SWIS, safe reporting (anonymous), survey tailored to TSD. Enhance tracking of HIB reports, including
cyberbullying. Consider involving Belong Partners in this effort.
All staff - 100% attendance - acknowledge that most 100% goals may be unrealistic. Instead, emphasize progress
reporting, particularly for Multilingual Learners (MLL)
Clarify how civic engagement will be measured within the strategic plan.
Review if all listed goals are realistic and achievable
Ensure consistent alignment and language across all related documents.
Divisified data collection - explore diverse methods of data collection.
Develop strategies to gather feedback from staff and assess their buy-in to the strategic plan.
4. Public Comment
A. Public Comment
Director Larson called for Public Comments.

There were no public comments.
5. Adjourn
A. Adjourn
Director Proctor made a motion to adjourn the Board Work Session.
Director Kruller seconded the motion.
All voted in favor of the motion.
The motion carried.
Director Larson adjourned the meeting at 5:19 p.m.

