Blaine School District No. 503
  Regular Board Meeting
Monday, January 25, 2021
  Minutes
  1. Regular Board Meeting
A. Call to Order
Due to restrictions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic emergency, this meeting was conducted with remote director participation. President Gibson called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.

All Directors were in attendance.
     Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  B. Pledge of Allegiance
President Gibson led in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  C. Board Comments on the Agenda
There were no comments on the agenda. President Gibson offered comments on three staff members who were recently honored with a Community Builder award.
  2. Public Comment
A. Public Comment
No visitors wished to address the board.
  3. Good News
A. Thank You School Board!
In observance of School Board Recognition Month, Superintendent Dr. Christopher Granger shared comments of appreciation for each of the directors on behalf of the community and all 317 employees. He indicated that he would present each director with a gift individually outside the meeting. Dr. Granger also commented on the two board positions open for election in 2021.
  4. Reports
A. School Administrator Reports
Brief reports were provided by administrators from the following schools:
Blaine Primary School: Mr. Jordan Radke indicated that first semester report cards will be going home soon, and the start of second semester included new faces as more students switched from online to hybrid learning. Conscious discipline work is continuing to address the development of social emotional skills in students. Ms. Shari Akers has put a great deal of effort into creating a virtual music concert with student performances which will be released soon. There was continued discussion regarding Conscious Discipline concepts, including "Skills & Powers" and "Brain States". Director McKinney expressed appreciation for the visual example provided which describes how students are taught self-discipline, rather than disciplining student behaviors.
Blaine Elementary School: Dr. Craig Baldwin described projects done by students in remembrance of Martin Luther King Jr. He explained the current attribute focus of "self-management" and described how students are being instructed in that area. He shared information about the BES Calm, Care, Connect Family Series which begins virtually on January 26 as a resource for families.
Blaine Middle School: Mr. Darren Benson shared examples of students demonstrating success in persistence and increased engagement. The recent launch of hybrid learning has brought a sense of relief and Mr. Benson is proud of middle school staff and students for following all the protocols. Director McKinney asked about the possibility of middle school athletics and discussion followed. Cabe VanderYacht interjected that he has been in communication with the Athletic Director but there is not a plan in place at this time for middle school level athletics. Discussion continued regarding the decision-making process and the focus on providing athletics for high school students.
Blaine High School: Mr. Scott Ellis shared OSPI Report Card indicators for the Class of 2020 which included a graduation rate above the state average at 88.3%. He echoed comments on their successful launch of the full hybrid program which has been a smooth process. He commended the district's foresight in planning the schedule to provide a seamless transition for students. Many other districts are looking to Blaine for an example of how to operate successfully in a hybrid model. Students With A Purpose (SWAP) made a significant addition to the district's food drive efforts. Mr. Ellis described upcoming PSAT and ASVAB testing. Preregistration for the 2021-2022 school year starts on February 25. Mr. Ellis expressed appreciation for the board's support as they navigate a very difficult year.
B. Enrollment Update
Executive Director of Finance and Operations Amber Porter reported on enrollment through the month of January which marks the half-year point. Enrollment declined by 11 FTE in the last month and there was discussion regarding possible causes for the decline. Ms. Porter explained that the latest enrollment is 75 FTE below the budgeted level for this year, and she described how this will impact revenue for the remainder of 2020-2021. Budget planning for 2021-2022 will also be challenging with so many unknown variables. 
  C. Budget Status and Financial Report
Amber Porter provided a report on revenue and expenses through the month of December. A debt service payment was noted, and expenditures continue to trend lower than normal due to the district's conservative spending. Cash and Investments appear to trend similarly to past years, but Ms. Porter anticipates this will decline as apportionment revenue is adjusted for actual enrollment. Director McKinney asked for additional information about the decline of enrollment and discussion followed. 
  D. Legislative Update
A Legislative Update was provided by Director McKinney. She described HB 1162 concerning high school graduation credit and pathway options for the Class of 2021. WSSDA is in support of this bill to help students whose learning has been disrupted by the pandemic. Director McKinney provided information about the business community's response related to CTE programs, including a regional skill center currently open in Skagit County. Dr. Granger gave additional explanation about the CTE enhancement funding.
  E. Superintendent's Report
Dr. Christopher Granger provided an update on current district activities.
During the legislature's first virtual session in state history, advocacy work has focused on the need for stable educational funding, particularly in the areas of transportation and apportionment which are based upon ridership and enrollment. Dr. Granger described the impact of additional expenses and anticipated loss of levy revenue. While every district's circumstances are unique, the need for stable funding is a statewide concern. Budget planning for the 2021-2022 school year will include difficult decisions related to staffing.
There are several legislative bills being considered related to education. SB 5037 applies to districts that have not yet reopened to in-person learning. HB 1368 attaches federal funding to a required plan for the recovery of learning loss. Dr. Granger explained action on SB 5128 related to Transportation funding. 
At the February meeting, the board will likely be asked to take action to direct development of a reduced education plan for 2021-2022. Budget planning considerations will include balancing staffing needs with enrollment, as well as evaluation of Special Education leadership in response to increased mandates in that area. So long as the 6' space requirement is in effect, Blaine schools cannot return to full-time in-person instruction due to facility space constraints. This could lead to more families leaving Blaine to attend schools with larger facilities. 
In order to provide additional elective opportunities for students, and to help students stay on track for graduation with the new 24-credit requirement, a 7-period schedule will be implemented next year at Blaine High School.
At the December meeting, there was inquiry about options to delay reorganization when all directors are not present to vote. Dr. Granger explained why it is necessary to complete the reorganization activity in December, particularly in an election year. This is also necessary in order for diplomas to be ordered in January.
Dr. Granger provided historical background on the board's consideration of a student representative in 2010 and 2018. He agreed with the board's past preference for a monthly student report which allows for broader student voice with various presenters. Dr. Granger described his desire to establish a Superintendent's Advisory Committee made up of students which would meet regularly to discuss issues and student perspectives. Director McKinney questioned why the topic of a student representative is so controversial. She suggested that a student representative could be appointed in addition to the monthly student reports, but she also agreed with the idea of a student committee. Director Thomas expressed concern that a single student would not be representative of the entire student body, and he would not want to limit the opportunity to learn about local government to only one student. Students currently have the ability to provide input through an appropriate chain of command, as well as in the monthly Public Comment opportunities. President Gibson commented that a student representative would not likely find participation on the board to be rewarding, and he added that the experience of participating on the suggested student committee could be included on a student's resume. Discussion continued and all directors were in favor of establishing a Superintendent's Advisory Committee once the pandemic emergency is over.
  5. Consent Agenda
A. Approval of Minutes - December 15, 2020 Regular Board Meeting
The board approved the minutes of the December 15, 2020 Regular Board Meeting.
Motion by Laura McKinney, second by Joan Lotze
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  B. Approval of Minutes - January 11, 2021 Special Board Meeting
The board approved the minutes of the January 11, 2021 Special Board Meeting.
Motion by Laura McKinney, second by Joan Lotze
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  C. Personnel Matters
The board approved Personnel Matters as detailed on the Consent Agenda.
Motion by Laura McKinney, second by Joan Lotze
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  D. SEIU Letter of Agreement (EPSLA)
The board approved a Letter of Agreement with the Service Employees International Union, Local 925, regarding pandemic-specific leave entitlements effective January 1, 2021.
Motion by Laura McKinney, second by Joan Lotze
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  E. Financial Matters
The board approved Financial Matters as detailed on the Consent Agenda.
Motion by Laura McKinney, second by Joan Lotze
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  F. Contracts & Agreements
The board approved the following service contracts:
2020-2021 Inter-local Agreement for Title IA Support
2020-2021 CEL Title 1 & Special Education Literacy Coaching Agreement
2020-2021 Parent Mileage Reimbursement Contract
2020-2021 WA State School for the Blind Agreement (TVI & OM)
Blazerworks Consultant Services Agreement
Motion by Laura McKinney, second by Joan Lotze
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  6. Action Items
A. BEA Memorandum of Understanding (EPSLA)
Dr. Granger explained the purpose of the MOU, and there was discussion about how the pandemic-specific leave can be used by staff. The board approved the MOU with the Blaine Education Association regarding pandemic-specific leave entitlements effective January 1, 2021. Director Thomas abstained from voting to avoid the appearance of a conflict of interest.
Motion by Todd Nunamaker, second by Laura McKinney
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0, 1 abstaining
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
Abstain: Dougal Thomas
  B. 2021-2022 School Calendar
Dr. Granger described the procedures used to develop next year's school calendar, and he suggested that, in future years, the process could include broader input from classified staff and parents. He also commented on OSPI's consideration of calendar flexibility and suggested the possibility of adopting a calendar two years out to allow both families and administrators to make plans further in advance. There was discussion regarding the survey of teachers which resulted in a recommendation for calendar "Option B", starting the new year on the Wednesday before Labor Day. Directors Thomas, Lotze, and Gibson commented on the predictability of always starting school on the Wednesday before Labor Day. The board adopted the "Option B" calendar for the 2021-2022 school year, with a start date of September 1, 2021 and a projected end date of June 16, 2022.
Motion by Dougal Thomas, second by Joan Lotze
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  C. Policy 6220 Bid or Request for Proposal Requirements: First Reading
There was discussion to better understand the changes to this policy.
The board approved "First Reading" of updates to Policy 6220 Bid or Request for Proposal Requirements.
Motion by Laura McKinney, second by Todd Nunamaker
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
  7. Board Comments and Future Meeting(s)
A. General Comments
Dr. Granger asked for two directors to participate in an upcoming Facility Use meeting, but there were no volunteers. He also explained his rationale for pursuing a contracted school photographer who would have "Group A" access to provide their service on campus. President Gibson indicated that the superintendent's evaluation could be added to the February agenda, and there was discussion regarding how the directors can share responses to the evaluation draft.
  B. Future Meeting(s) and Agenda Suggestions
The next regular board meeting is on Monday, February 22, 2021 at 7:00 p.m.

Suggestions for agenda items include:
School Administrator Monthly Reports
Enrollment Update and Financial Report
2021-2022 Budget Planning Process Discussion
Legislative Update
Superintendent's Report
Policy Updates
Superintendent's Evaluation
  8. Executive Session
A. Executive Session
At 8:51 p.m. it was announced that the board would move into executive session for the purpose of reviewing the performance of a public employee. The executive session was anticipated to last for approximately thirty (30) minutes, with no action following the executive session. The directors left the open meeting and transitioned to the closed session. Due to some delay in this transition, the executive session started at 9:06 p.m.
  9. Reconvene & Adjourn
A. Reconvene & Adjourn
The executive session ended at 9:32 p.m. and the meeting reconvened into regular session. There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned by a unanimous vote at 9:34 p.m.
Motion by Todd Nunamaker, second by Joan Lotze
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney
                                 ________________________________                            ________________________________
                                      BOARD PRESIDENT                                                               SECRETARY/CLERK
 