CITY OF PULLMAN
PLANNING COMMISSION
Regular Meeting Minutes
May 22, 2024
The City of Pullman Planning Commission held a regular meeting at 7:00 p.m. on Wednesday,
May 22, 2024 in Council Chambers, City Hall, 190 SE Crestview, Building A, Pullman,
Washington with Chair John Anderson presiding.
ROLL CALL:
Present: Taylor, O’Callaghan, Carper, Anderson, Hodge, O’English, Joswig-Jones
Staff:
Lott, Medeiros, Goodwater, Forrest

ANDERSON

Called the meeting to order at 7:01 PM and called roll.

MOTION

Carper moved to approve minutes from March 27, 2024.
Seconded by Hodge and passed unanimously.

LOTT

Lott requested that item 2 on the agenda be presented first in
the meeting.

MOTION

O’English moved to move Item 2 to be the current item.
Seconded by O’Callaghan.

DISCUSSION

Commissioners asked who from the audience was attending
to speak about the agenda items.

VOTE

Commission voted to approve the change to the agenda;
passed unanimously.

REGULAR BUSINESS:
Conduct a public meeting to
review and recommend action on
the proposed 2025-2030 Capital
Improvement Program for
Pullman and on the proposed
2025-2030 Transportation
Improvement Program for
Pullman.

Lott introduced the Capital Improvement Program (CIP) and
Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) proposal for
2025-2030.

MOTION

Taylor moved the Commission find that the 2025-2030 CIP,
as prepared by staff, is consistent with the Comprehensive
Plan and be forwarded to the City Council with a

O’Callaghan and Taylor spoke about the CIP/TIP Committee
meeting they attended. Planning Commissioners discussed
the cyber and physical security, traffic sensors, and
Microsoft 365 software.

Planning Commission
Regular Meeting Minutes

May 22, 2024
Page 2 of 4

recommendation for approval. Seconded by O’Callaghan
and passed unanimously.
MOTION

Taylor moved the Commission find that the 2025-2030 TIP,
as prepared by staff, is consistent with the Comprehensive
Plan and be forwarded to the City Council with a
recommendation for approval. Seconded by O’Callaghan
and passed unanimously.

REGULAR BUSINESS –
Conduct a workshop on the draft
Pullman City Code updates.

Medeiros clarified if the Commission would be accepting
public comments during the meeting. The Commission will
be taking comments during all meetings.
Medeiros presented a PowerPoint regarding the proposed
code changes that she starting working on as part of her
Master’s degree.
Commissioners discussed the modification of ‘shall’ to ‘will’
in the code and the use of the word historically.

CAROLYN GORDON
1480 SW CENTER ST

Gordon discussed her findings regarding short-term rentals.
She submitted a public records request to Pullman Police
Department (PPD) and the City of Pullman regarding Shortterm rentals for 2019 to Present. Looked for reports that
included specific key words regarding short-term rentals. For
PPD - For those 5 years, there were 10 reports found.
Through the City of Pullman, there were 5 reports found.
Carolyn believes there is not a problem with short-term
rentals and feels this is unnecessary over-regulation. She
believes short-term rentals are self-regulated through the
online review process (i.e., Yelp) which happens for both the
landlord and the tenant.

DISCUSSION

Commissioners opined the regulation could be a good thing
and more of a preventative measure vs. addressing a problem
that already exists. The fee seems reasonable.
Currently short-term rentals are housed under ‘boarding
houses’ in the code and it is overly restrictive and costly. The
intention is not to come down on residents about compliance,
but to make it easier and better for those who want to pursue
having short-term rentals.
Discussion about length of stay or other restrictions that
some cities impose. Medeiros highlighted other cities and

Planning Commission
Regular Meeting Minutes

May 22, 2024
Page 3 of 4

that the City of Pullman is concerned primarily with life
safety and not making short-term rentals unachievable.
HELENE HOPKINS
535 SW CAYUSE ST

Hopkins had comments about the wording in the proposed
code about having a property manager if the owner doesn’t
live nearby. She doesn’t feel it is feasible to find people that
will want to manage short term rentals. In the State of
Washington, you need to be a licensed Agent or Broker in
order to manage properties.
Companies like Airbnb already collect B&O taxes and she
wants to make sure that additional taxes are not going to be
incurred. Hopkins also had concerns about needing to have
emergency lighting in the short-term rentals. She believes
that is not an appealing thing.

DISCUSSION

Medeiros clarified the Property Manager restriction and the
intent being to be have someone local that can respond to the
property if needed or if there is an emergency.

KARL OLSEN
220 SE DERBY ST

Olsen is a local owner of several short-term rentals in town,
for which he has obtained Conditional Use Permits. He feels
that historically, the code has not been clear on this subject.
Olsen is interested in how many people in town don’t apply
for the residential rental property registration for long-term
rentals. How will these new codes be enforced? How can we
make this feasible and achievable for all parties?
Discussion about the Conditional Use Permit process. Olsen
and Hopkins gave opinion about how many short-term
rentals are going through a third-party app, and how many
are private party short-term rentals.

SEAN ROBERTSON
2122 DAVES AVE

Robertson commented that it seems odd that this regulation
for short-term rentals is being proposed, because of the low
number of complaints/problems with short-term rentals.
Robertson asked if the annual fee would be waived since a
yearly inspection is no longer required. Medeiros stated that
the yearly inspection was to verify safety requirements were
still in place but instead to post what is required in the unit
and provide contact information for someone at the City, if
there isn’t compliance.

DISCUSSION

Commissioners and staff discussed a City-provided GIS map
showing approved short-term rentals in the City; publishing

Planning Commission
Regular Meeting Minutes

May 22, 2024
Page 4 of 4

personal information and associated security concerns;
disclosure to neighbors of the short-term rental; neighbors
potentially causing problems due to negative bias about
short-term rentals; and statistics regarding the percentage of
unoccupied units in Pullman and how that relates to the larger
housing crisis in Washington State.
HELENE HOPKINS

Hopkins discussed the Registry for long-term rentals and the
process. The information on the registry was not sharable
between City Departments. Having a database to register
long-term rentals is difficult because it takes upkeep.

DISCUSSION

Discussion about upcoming meetings to continue this topic,
and the timing of associated public hearings.
General discussion about how to submit public comment.
City staff accepts written comments as well as in-person
comments. There has been some misinformation circulating
through the news media about how the public can participate.

OTHER BUSINESS

None.

UPCOMING MEETINGS

June 26, 2024 – Carper, Hodge, and Joswig-Jones have
conflicts
July 24, 2024 – No conflicts noted.
August 28, 2024 – Public Hearing - No conflicts noted.

MOTION

Carper moved to adjourn. Seconded by Hodge and passed
unanimously. Meeting adjourned at 9:18 PM.

ATTEST:

Chair

Community Development Director

Secretary

