Regular Council Meeting (Tuesday, August 13, 2024)
Generated by Dee Stiles-Elliott on Wednesday, August 14, 2024

City of Pullman
Council Minutes
City Council Chambers
190 SE Crestview Street
Pullman, WA 99163
7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, August 13, 2024

Members present
Mayor Francis Benjamin, Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric
Fejeran, Carla De Lira, and Trymaine Gaither.
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m.
A. Call to Order, Roll Call
B. Announcements
Mayor Benjamin made thirteen comments.
C. Community Comments
Community members urged the Council to pass a ceasefire resolution.
D. City Councilmember Comments
Councilmembers Fejeran and Weller thanked the Boys and Girls Club of the Lewis Clark
Valley for partnering with Pullman schools to continue after-school programming.
Councilmember Weller also encouraged everyone to visit McGee Park and see the
upgrades that have been completed.
Councilmember De Lira announced she will be hosting a cease-fire resolution listening
session on August 19, 2024.
E. Mayor's Comments
Mayor Benjamin also expressed his appreciation for the Boys and Girls Club's support
of our community's after-school programming.
F. Committee, Commission, Board Reports
Environmental Resilience Commission Chair Larry Clark provided an update on the
commission's work over the last year. A climate Action Plan is in its final stages and will
be presented to the Council soon.
G. City Council and Mayor Future Regular Agenda Requests
There were no requests.
H. Community Comments on Final Action Items for this Agenda
There were no comments.
I. Confirmation of Appointments
There were no appointments.

J. Presentations
Presentations: 1. Dwelling Inspection Program/Life-Safety Inspections
Building Official Jeromy Moore explained the residential rentals' dwelling/life safety
inspection process. Dwelling/life safety inspections largely occur during the move-in
process for new students, although they may occur at any time at the tenant's or property
owner's request.
The dwelling inspection program is a service provided at no cost to the applicant. A life
safety inspection will only be performed when the tenant, owner, or the owner’s agent
makes a request in writing by filling out a Dwelling Inspection Request Form.
A building inspector will arrange a time for an inspection with the person submitting the
request. The inspector will contact the owner and/or property manager to inform them of
the inspection request and invite them to the inspection. The inspector will record the
results of the inspection using the City’s Dwelling Inspection Checklist and the correlating
report form. A building inspector may provide additional resources to a tenant, such as
contact information for the Whitman County Public Health, WSU Student Legal Services,
and the Washington State Landlord Tenant Law.
The tenant and the owner/property manager will be notified of the inspection results,
including any corrections that are required and the timeline for correction. After any
necessary corrections are made, a report or a note will be added to the address file.
Presentations: 2. Financial Update - 2024Q2
Finance Director Jeff Elbracht presented a second-quarter update for 2024, noting that
revenues are leveling but still performing well, property tax collection is consistent, and
sale tax revenue is stable. Other general fund revenues, such as admission tax and
building permits, are also leveling but maintaining a consistent level. General fund
expenses are slightly under budget, with capital expenses returning to normal.
Presentations: 3. Financial Education
Finance Director Jeff Elbracht presented an educational piece on revenue sources,
explaining the different categories of revenue and their restrictions. Government funds,
including the general fund, are heavily tax-subsidized, with property and sales tax being
the largest contributors to the general fund.
K. Consent Agenda.
The items listed under the consent agenda are considered to be routine in nature
and will be enacted by a single motion of the City Council without separate
discussion.
Action: 1.
A motion to read the Consent Agenda by title only.
Motion by Pat Wright, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
L. Consent Agenda items
Action (Consent): 1.
A motion to dispense with the reading of the July 23, 2024, regular meeting
minutes and approve them as submitted.
Action (Consent): 2.

A motion to dispense with the reading of the July 30, 2024, regular meeting
minutes and approve them as submitted.
Action (Consent): 3.
A motion to accept the Terre View Roundabout at North Fairway contract as
complete.
Action (Consent): 4.
A motion to ratify Change Order No. 2 to the City of Pullman WWTP WAS
Thickening Improvements Project contract.
Action (Consent): 5.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
20112087 through 20112130 totaling $434,889.65
Action (Consent): 6.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
20112131 through 20112146 totaling $295,669.92
Action (Consent): 7.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
20112147 through 20112207 totaling $524,472.93
Action (Consent): 8.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks, Electronic
Transfers, and ADP Payroll Transfers totaling $1,135,254.72
Action (Consent), Resolution: 9.
RESOLUTION NO. R-51-24 – A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING THE BID OF KNOX
CONRETE LLC FOR THE SIDEWALKS 2024 PROJECT AND AUTHORIZING
EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THE CONTRACT FOR SAID PROJECT.
Action (Consent), Resolution, Motion: 10.
RESOLUTION NO. R-52-24 - A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION
OF AMENDMENT NO. 3 TO A WATER QUALITY COMBINED FINANCIAL
ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF PULLMAN AND THE
WASHINGTON STATE DEPARTMENT OF ECOLOGY FOR THE DECANT
FACILITY PROJECT.
Mayor Benjamin asked the Council if they would like any consent agenda items
removed for further discussion. There were none.
Motion by Eric Fejeran, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
M. Public Hearing
There was not a public hearing.
N. Regular Agenda

Action, Resolution: 1.
City Engineer Cara Haley explained The Palouse Basin Aquifer Committee (PBAC) is a
voluntary, cooperative, multi-jurisdictional group comprised of representatives from the
cities of Pullman and Moscow, Whitman and Latah counties, and Washington State
University (WSU) and the University of Idaho (UI). PBAC has existed in some form since
1967 with a mission to ensure a long-term, quality water supply for the Palouse Basin
region. PBAC is officially recognized by both the Idaho Department of Water Resources
and the Washington Department of Ecology.
In 2003, the agencies entered a 20-year Interagency Agreement that formally formed the
Palouse Basin Aquifer Committee. The purpose of PBAC was to work cooperatively on
water resource problems and issues while considering the benefits of growth activity and
economic development. By working together, PBAC's continued goal is to implement
the Palouse Basin Groundwater Management Plan, enacted in 1992, by analyzing
and researching the Palouse Groundwater Basin. The Committee monitors
groundwater levels and annual water usage, continually advocates for education
opportunities, encourages conservation within the community, and pursues and
supports the development of supplemental and/or alternate water supply sources.
The original PBAC Interagency Agreement expired on August 21, 2023, and was
extended an additional year by a Memorandum of Agreement, authorized by Pullman City
Council on November 14, 2023, by Resolution R-51-23. This extension is intended to
allow time for the Committee to prepare and execute a new agreement. This proposed
new Interstate Agreement is attached, with a stipulated term of 10 years, and will allow
PBAC to continue its ongoing regional work.
The proposed agreement and the total annual funding contributions were revised to
reflect the new amounts for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2024. The contribution of the
pumping entities (City of Pullman, City of Moscow, University of Idaho, and Washington
State University) is $53,750, and Latah County and Whitman County is $8,483.
The last time funding levels changed was in 2019, and before that, in 2007. Moving
forward, consistent with previous practice and as stipulated in the agreement, PBAC will
establish annual contributions annually with a two-thirds majority vote necessary to
change assessment amounts from the previous year. Pullman’s funding for PBAC comes
from the Water budget of the Utility Fund.
RESOLUTION NO. R-53-24 – A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE
EXECUTION OF A NEW INTERSTATE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF
PULLMAN, THE CITY OF MOSCOW, WASHINGTON STATE UNIVERSITY, THE
UNIVERSITY OF IDAHO, WHITMAN COUNTY, AND LATAH COUNTY FOR THE
PALOUSE BASIN AQUIFER COMMITTEE.
Motion by Megan Guido, second by Carla De Lira.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
Action, Resolution: 2.
Deputy Public Works Director Clayton Forsman explained This project consists of
pedestrian crossing improvements consisting of Rectangular Rapid Flashing
Beacons, accessible push buttons, and curb ramp and crosswalk striping upgrades
at the following four locations as derived from the City’s 2022 Local Road Safety
Plan. SW Fountain Street / SW Center Street, South Grand Ave / SW McKenzie
Street/Blaine Street, Old Wawawai Road / SW Marcia Drive and NE Stadium Way /
NE Lybecker Road.
At their March 1st, 2022 meeting, the Council authorized staff to submit a grant
application to the Washington State Department of Transportation through the City
Safety Program to fund the design and construction of this project ($574,000). At

their April 16, 2024 meeting, the Council authorized the execution of a Local Agency
Agreement with WSDOT to obligate said grant funding for design engineering work
($69,000).
To select a consultant for this work, staff solicited statements of qualifications from
qualified consultants. The solicitation, which included all required federal provisions
necessary to comply with WSDOT federal requirements, was prepared and
advertised in the Moscow-Pullman Daily News and the Seattle Daily Journal of
Commerce.
Staff received and evaluated five statements of qualifications, followed by a
telephone interview with each of the top three firms. The firm selected through this
process was Kittelson and Associates, Inc. A scope and budget were determined
and negotiated with Kittelson and Associates, Inc. The project is to be performed on
a cost-plus fixed fee basis with an estimated budget of $95,709.16.
Design work is planned for the remainder of 2024, into early 2025, with construction
work planned for the summer of 2025.
RESOLUTION NO. R-54-24 - A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION
OF LOCAL AGENCY A&E PROFESSIONAL SERVICES COST-PLUS FIXED
FEE CONSULTANT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF PULLMAN AND
KITTELSON AND ASSOCIATES, INC. FOR THE CITYWIDE PEDESTRIAN
CROSSING IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT.
Motion by Eric Fejeran, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
Action, Resolution, Motion: 3.
Deputy Public Works Director Clayton Forsmann explained this project consists of
improvements at nine signalized locations as derived from the City’s 2022 Local
Road Safety Plan.
Improvements include the implementation of flashing yellow left arrows, new 12-inch
signal heads with reflectorized backplates, new internally illuminated street name
signs, new traffic signal cabinets and controllers, and pedestrian/bicycle advanced
crossing intervals at South Grand Avenue/Bishop Blvd, South Grand Avenue/
Crestview Street, North Grand Avenue / Whitman Street, North Grand Avenue /
Stadium Way, North Grand Avenue / Terre View Drive, NE Stadium Way / NE Valley
Road, E. Main Street / NE Stadium Way, E. Main Street / SW Bishop Blvd and E.
Main Street / NE Terre View Drive.
At their March 1st, 2022 meeting, the Council authorized staff to submit a grant
application to the Washington State Department of Transportation through the City
Safety Program to fund the design and construction of this project ($1,062,000). At
their April 16, 2024 meeting, the Council authorized the execution of federal
requirements. The solicitation was advertised in the Moscow-Pullman Daily News
and the Seattle Daily Journal of Commerce.
To select a consultant for this work, staff solicited statements of qualifications from
qualified consultants. The solicitation was prepared to include all required federal
provisions necessary to comply with WSDOT federal requirements. It was
advertised in the Moscow-Pullman Daily News and the Seattle Daily Journal of
Commerce.
Staff received and evaluated five statements of qualifications, followed by a
telephone interview with each of the top three firms. The firm selected through this
process was Kittelson and Associates. The scope and budget were then determined

and negotiated with Kittelson and Associates, Inc. The project is to be performed on
a cost-plus fixed fee basis with an estimated budget of $140,411.77.
Design work is planned for the remainder of 2024 into early 2025, with construction
work planned for the summer of 2025.
RESOLUTION NO. R-55-24 - A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE
EXECUTION OF LOCAL AGENCY A&E PROFESSIONAL SERVICES COSTPLUS FIXED FEE CONSULTANT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF
PULLMAN AND KITTELSON AND ASSOCIATES, INC. FOR THE CITYWIDE
INTERSECTION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT.
Motion by Nathan Weller, second by Megan Guido.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
O. Discussion Items
Discussion Items: 1. Goals & Priorities Work Groups
Mayor Benjamin and the Council discussed the in-town rail banking work group, which
consists of Councilmembers Parks, Weller, and Fejeran. The group will work on strategies
to get our legislators involved since the rail banks are state-owned and require legislative
action.
P. New Business
Mayor Benjamin asked if any new business would come before the Council. There was
none.
Q. Executive Session
At 8:53 p.m., Mayor Benjamin announced that the City Council would adjourn to an
Executive Session pursuant to RCW 42.30.110(1)(b) to consider the selection of a site
or the acquisition of real estate by lease or purchase when public knowledge regarding
such consideration would likely increase the price.
The Executive Session is expected to last approximately 10 minutes. If it becomes
necessary to extend the Executive Session, someone will return to announce the
anticipated additional time needed by the City Council.
The Council does not anticipate taking action following the Executive Session.
At 9:00 p.m., an announcement was made that the Council would extend their Executive
Session for an additional five minutes.
R. Adjournment
Action, Motions: 1. A motion to adjourn the meeting.
Motion by Eric Fejeran, second by Carla De Lira.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
The meeting adjourned at 9:10 p.m.
____________________________
City Clerk Dee Stiles-Elliott

