Regular Council Meeting (Tuesday, March 12, 2024)
Generated by Dee Stiles-Elliott on Wednesday, March 13, 2024
  City of Pullman
Council Minutes
City Council Chambers
190 SE Crestview Street
Pullman, WA 99163
7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, March 12, 2024
    Members present
  Mayor Francis Benjamin, Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, and Trymaine Gaither. 
  The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m.
  A. Call to Order - Roll Call
  Mayor Benjamin asked for a motion to excuse Councilmember Weller,
  Motion by Megan Guido, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
  B. Announcements
  Mayor Benjamin made six annoucements.
  C. Community Comments
  Mayor Benjamin opened public comment to take any comments on consent or regular agenda items on which the Council will take final action but excluded items where public comment was previously accepted, including prior Public Hearings.  
  Pullman Civic Trust president Bobbie Ryder presented ideas for downtown bike lanes related to the Project Downtown.
  Downtown Pullman Association Design Vice Chair Gigi Skrzycka presented the association’s pilot program that utilizes movable furniture for improvements in the downtown area.
  D. City Councilmember Comments
  There were no comments.
  E. Mayor’s Comments
  There were no comments from the Mayor.
  F. Committee, Commission, Board Reports
  There were no reports.
  G. City Council and Mayor Future Regular Agenda Requests
  Councilmember Fejeran requested an agenda item regarding the design change order for Project Downtown and the criteria.  He also requested a Council meeting on March 19, 2024, to discuss the process. 
  City Administrator Mike Urban advised that staff had not planned on a Council meeting next week due to a lack of agenda items and that creating a full agenda for next week would be impossible; however, if the Council wanted to have a meeting on March 19, staff would create an agenda with the one discussion item. 
  The Council discussed meeting on March 19, 2024 but ultimately decided Welch Comer would not have any design change requests reviewed and evaluated before next week’s meeting, and it would be a better use of staff and Council time to wait until March 26 and have an agenda item to discuss the process further. 
  Councilmember Fejeran withdrew his motion for a meeting on March 19, 2024, and proposed having a discussion item on March 26 on the design and design change orders process.  Councilmember Guido seconded the motion. 
  H. Community Comments on Final Action Items for this Agenda
  There were no comments.
  I.  Confirmation of Appointments
  There were no appointments.
  J. Presentations
  Presentations: 1.  Pullman Chamber of Commerce Update
  Pullman Chamber of Commerce Executive Director Marie Dymkoski explained how the chamber will highlight the downtown area during the Downtown Project and support businesses throughout the construction phase. 
  Pullman Tourism Promotions Manager Alexis Moran updated the Council on her work promoting Pullman since her hiring in August 2023, including a “Visit Pullman” website and developing a robust digital presence featuring Pullman in real-time. 
  Presentations: 2.  Code Enforcement Dogs of Leash and Leash Laws
Code Enforcement Supervisor Liz Oje explained that the Pullman City Code governs the Code Enforcement Department.  Pullman Police Department employs four Code Enforcement Officers who actively patrol for parking violations, dogs off leash, dogs running at large, and other City Code offenses.  Pullman Code Enforcement’s philosophy is to take an educational stance before progressing to an infraction if allowed by code. 
Presentations: 3.  Neill Public Library 2023 Annual Report
Neill Public Library Director Dan Owen presented the Library’s 2024 annual report. 
K. Consent Agenda. 
  The items listed under the consent agenda are considered to be routine in nature and will be enacted by a single motion of the City Council without separate discussion.
  Action: 1.  
  A motion to read the Consent Agenda by title only.
  Motion by Megan Guido, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
  L. Consent Agenda items
  Action (Consent), Minutes: 1.  
  A motion to dispense with the reading of the February 27, 2024 meeting minutes and approve them as submitted.
  Action (Consent): 2.  
  A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered 2010676 through 2010713 totaling $304,463.18
  Action (Consent): 3.  
  A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered 2010714 through 2010767 totaling $295,508.39
  Action (Consent): 4.  
  A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks, Electronic Transfers, and ADP Payroll Transfers totaling $1,095,598.93
  Action (Consent): 5.  
  A motion to authorize an addendum to the SPIN contract to include rider safety and operation information.
  Mayor Benjamin asked if the Council would like any consent agenda items removed for further discussion.  There were none. 
  Motion by Eric Fejeran, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
  M. Public Hearing
  There was not a public hearing.
  N. Regular Agenda
  City of Pullman Building Official Jeromy Moore explained that the State of Washington chose March 15, 2024, as the effective date for the updates on the Washington State Building Building Code.  Revised Code of Washington (RCW) 19.97 requires cities and counties to adopt and enforce the Washington Building Code.  Historically, the new codes have been implemented every three years, which would have originally made the effective date of the 2021 codes July 1, 2023.  Due to pending litigation, the Washington State Building Code Council (SBCC) delayed the effective date to October 29, 2023, and then delayed it again to March 15, 2024.
  The Washington State Building Code consists of five (5) model codes with state amendments.  The model codes are the International Building Code (IBC), International Residential Code (IRC), International Mechanical Code (IMC), International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC) published by the International Code Council, and the Uniform Plumbing Code (UPC) published by the International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials.  The State of Washington has amended all of the model codes.  The Washington State Energy Code is stand-alone.  The State of Washington adopts the National Electrical Code (NEC) but is not part of the Washington State Building Code.  These codes are adopted in the city’s Construction Code, Title 2 of the Pullman City Code (PCC).
  Title 2 has several minor revisions, including references to the new code editions being the most current edition adopted by the State of Washington and removing the City of Pullman gas fitter’s license requirement (in addition to the state-recognized trade license requirements).  Attached is a copy of Title 2 of the PCC showing the proposed additions or deletions to the Construction Code.
  Regular Agenda, Action, Ordinance: 1.  
  ORDINANCE NO. 24-05 - AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PULLMAN, WHITMAN COUNTY, WASHINGTON, AMENDING PULLMAN CITY CODE SECTIONS 2.15.010, 2.20.010, 2.25.010, 2.25.030, 2.25.040, 2.25.050, 2.25.060, 2.25.070, 2.25.080 2.30.010, AND 2.35.010 AND ORDINANCE NOS. ORD 21-1 §7 (2021) ORD. 18-25 §6, (2018), AND OTHER MATTERS PROPERLY PERTAINING THERETO.
  Motion by Megan Guido, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
  Parks and Facilities Director Kurt Dahmen explained On August 19, 2023, Chipman Trail Bridge #5 (located between Alpine Animal Hospital - 4853 WA-270 & 5101 WA-270) was damaged by an arson fire.  The bridge was not covered under Whitman County’s liability insurance coverage (consistent with all bridges in their transportation network).  The Whitman County Bridge Crew Foreman inspected the bridge and determined it needed to be replaced. 
  On March 12, 1997, the City of Pullman, City of Moscow, Washington State University, University of Idaho, and Whitman County agreed to share maintenance and operation costs and implement operational procedures for the Palouse Trail, aka Chipman Trail.  The agreement further established a committee known as the Palouse Trail Committee (PTC), which consists of five members, with one representing each entity.  Currently, each entity contributes $10,000 annually to a fund that provides routine maintenance and builds a reserve fund for future capital projects.
  Section 3.3 of the agreement between entities states, “From time to time, there may be a need to expend funds for (such things as bridge maintenance or replacement, path reconstruction, or renovation) ”capital costs” that exceed the amount available from annual contributions.  In these cases, each “Entity” may be approached with a request from the PTC for additional contributions and may participate on a case-by-case basis.” 
  At the February 13, 2024, Palouse Trail Committee meeting, members agreed to request each entity’s governing/legislative bodies for $40,000 towards the replacement cost of the bridge, with $50,000 being used from existing trail fund reserves. At the February 14, 2024, Parks & Recreation Commission meeting, committee members passed a motion recommending approving $40,000 funding from Pullman, but not with Metro-Parks funds.   
  The estimated cost of replacement of the bridge is $250,000.  Whitman County is leading the bridge project, and its bridge crew will perform the work.  Whitman County Commissioners support this proposal and are willing to contribute their share of $40,000 to the project and are also willing to cover any costs beyond $250,000. 
  This expenditure is not budgeted in 2024, and a future budget amendment is expected at the end of the year.    
  Regular Agenda, Action, Resolution: 2.  
  RESOLUTION NO. R-14-24 - A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE PAYMENT OF $40,000.00 TO WHITMAN COUNTY FOR THE CHIPMAN TRAIL BRIDGE REPLACEMENT PROJECT.
  Motion by Megan Guido, second by Eric Fejeran.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
  Geographic Information Systems Administrator Sam Jenkins explained that since the Geographic Information System Program’s inception before the successful growth of the program, the existing licensing is no longer sufficient for current use and anticipated growth.
  The cost of continuing to purchase the required software and licenses piecemeal will exceed the cost of the enterprise agreement negotiated with Esri, the software vendor.
Funds budgeted in 2024 cover the cost of the first year of the agreement.  Funding for the remaining two years would be addressed in the 2025-2026 budget process.
  Implementing GIS at the City of Pullman has transformed how we use data to monitor city resources, make data-driven decisions, and communicate.  The program’s successful growth has meant the existing licensing is insufficient for current use and anticipated growth.
  The City of Pullman GIS provides desktop mapping and analysis software to power users, provides GIS data and map servers to integrated business systems, and provides a web portal for users to view, create, and analyze spatial data to manage City resources under their care more effectively, and provides mobile GIS applications so field crews can maintain operational views of systems under their care.
  Funds for an SGEA were allocated during the 2023-2024 budgeting process.  Esri has offered the City of Pullman a ramped entry into the SGEA three-year commitment at considerable savings.
  The benefits of the SGEA include unlimited desktop licenses for growing numbers of users producing high-quality maps and maintaining complex data sets such as utility networks, land parcel fabrics, and road condition asset management.  Additional server licenses will be required to support existing business system integrations and new servers for anticipated roles in asset management software.  It has sophisticated analytic tool licenses that expand the return on investment made in creating data.  Reduced costs of license administration.  Expanded access for users of the WebGIS to create and maintain spatial information.
  Regular Agenda, Action, Resolution: 3.  
  RESOLUTION NO. R-15-24 - A RESOLUTION WAIVING PUBLIC BIDDING AND AUTHORIZING SELECTION OF SOLE SOURCE GIS SOFTWARE PROVIDER.
  Motion by Ann Parks, second by Megan Guido.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
  City of Pullman Building Official Jeromy Moore explained that Permit fee schedules are set by the City Council by Resolution per City of Pullman Construction Code sections 2.15.020, 2.20.020, and 2.25.020.  The last time permit fees were revised was in 2021.  Below is a brief explanation of the fee changes proposed.
  Demolition Permit: Demolition permits can require increased staff time and resources to safeguard the public.  The graduated fee schedule for commercial structures (IBC) offsets the cost of pre-construction meetings, site inspections, and pedestrian safety plan reviews while keeping residential (IRC) demolition permits flat rate unchanged.
  Retaining Wall Permit: Currently, permits are calculated by multiplying the square footage of the wall by $15.00 to establish the valuation of the wall.  Contractor-estimated valuations are often three to five times higher than our calculated value and sometimes as much as eight times.  Increasing the multiplier to $30.00 would offset the cost of the structural review, field inspections, and special inspection supervision required while still keeping the value substantially less than the contractor valuation. 
  Adult Family Home Permit: This is meant to keep the permit inexpensive and flat rate to facilitate the need for Adult Family Home care facilities.  When converting a single-family home to an Adult Family Home, a change of occupancy is needed.  Also, reviews and inspections are needed to ensure that the facility meets the life/safety requirements of the State Licensed Care Facility.
  Residential Rooftop Solar Permit: This proposal is meant to keep the permit inexpensive and flat rate to facilitate renewable energy in residential settings.  Currently, the valuation of the project is used.  The values can vary from $8,000-$20,00 as an example.  A flat rate permit would offset city resources reviewing, permitting, and inspecting while keeping the permit inexpensive regardless of the valuation.
  Signs: Currently, there is no clear fee structure to capture the time and resources needed for plan review, permitting, and inspecting signs as a structure.  A sign permit would give clear direction for permitting signs mechanically fastened to buildings and as separate structures such as monuments, poles, and pedestals.
  Foundation permits: The “foundation only” permit has not been utilized in my tenure.  The “Early start/Phase permit” currently facilitates citizens who wish to perform phased construction.  Deletion of this portion would remove confusion and redundancies.
  Action, Resolution, Regular Agenda: 4.  
  RESOLUTION NO. R-16–24 - A RESOLUTION UPDATING FEES RELATED TO BUILDING PERMITS, PLUMBING PERMITS, AND MECHANICAL PERMITS.
  Motion by Megan Guido, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
  City Administrator Mike Urban explained while preparing for Project Downtown to commence in April 2024 that city staff has been meeting regularly since 2023Q3 to address transportation and parking activities expected to be disrupted during construction build-out.
  These meetings resulted in an initial parking and transportation plan, which was vetted by the Project Manager, Welch Comer, and presented to the Mayor & City Council on February 27, 2024.  The Project Manager refined the plan with the contractor, Apollo Inc., and debuted it publicly at an open house event on February 29, 2024.
  As part of staff discussion and discussed during the initial presentation to the City Council on February 27th, staff recommends the creation of a project-specific Ad-Hoc Parking and Transportation Committee with certain authorities for the duration of the project.
  This recommendation’s importance centers around the ability to respond efficiently and react quickly to unanticipated issues and changing conditions that may arise during project construction and to maintain and maximize services and operations by addressing temporary solutions in the affected area. 
  The recommended affected area is the C-2 zone.  This area was selected because it is already defined and encompasses most of the activity that the project is anticipated to affect, and existing codes, ordinances, and resolutions regulate parking in this area.
  As previously presented to the City Council, the recommended members of this committee remain:
Mayor, acting as Chairperson - (Francis Benjamin)
City Councilmember appointed as Mayor Pro-Tempore (Pat Wright)
City Councilmember appointed as Alternate Mayor Pro-Tempore (Eric Fejeran)
Chief of Police (Jake Opgenorth)
City Engineer (Cara Haley)
Fire Marshal (Darren Jones)      
The Project Manager will make available the email address  Info@ProjectDowntownPullman.org for the community to communicate any requests for changes the Ad Hoc Parking and Transportation Committee should take under consideration.  To help the Project Manager expedite such requests promptly, please start the email’s subject line with either Parking or Transportation.  Furthermore, staff will create a landing page on the city website to explain this process, provide appropriate links outlining activities, and catalog the committee’s actions.
  City Administrator Mike Urban further explained that the Ad-Hoc committee is operational, and it would look inappropriate to have members of the public or business owners sit on the committee.  And the committee was created to move quickly when an issue arises. 
  Regular Agenda, Action, Resolution: 5.  
  RESOLUTION R-17-24 - A RESOLUTION CREATING AND PROVIDING FOR AUTHORITY TO AN AD-HOC PARKING AND TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE FOR THE DURATION OF PROJECT DOWNTOWN IN 2024.
  Motion by Megan Guido, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
  O. Discussion Items
  There were no discussion items.
  P. New Business
  Information: 1.  
  This agenda item is for the City Council, Mayor, or City Staff to bring new items forward that are in need of timely attention and only presented itself after the publication of this agenda.
  There was no new business. 
  Q. Executive Session
  At 9:11 p.m., Mayor Benjamin announced at this time the City Council would adjourn to an Executive Session pursuant to RCW 42.30.110(1)(c) to consider the minimum price at which real estate will be offered for sale or lease when public knowledge regarding such consideration would cause a likelihood of decreased price, provided final action selling or leasing public property shall be taken in a meeting open to the public.
  The Executive Session is expected to last approximately 10 minutes.  If it becomes necessary to extend the Executive Session, someone will return to announce the anticipated additional time needed by the City Council.
  The Council does not anticipate taking action following the Executive Session.
  The Executive Session began at 9:15 p.m.
  R. Adjournment
  Action: 1.  A motion to adjourn the regular meeting of Pullman City Council.
  Motion by Trymaine Gaither, second by Carla De Lira, to adjourn.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
  The meeting adjourned at 9:25 p.m.
      _____________________________
City Clerk Dee Stiles-Elliott
     