Pullman Parks & Recreation Commission
Regular Meeting Minutes
February 14, 2024

Members present: Chairman Mick Nazerali, Rod Schwartz, Scott McBeath, Zach Fredrickson, and Jordan
Vorderbrueggen; Staff present: Kurt Dahmen, DJ Mackie and Kimberly Johnson.

1. CALL TO ORDER:
a. Chairman Mick Nazerali called the regular meeting of the Pullman Parks & Recreation
Commission to order Wednesday, February 14, 2024 at 12:00pm.
2. ADOPTION:
a. MOTION: Chairman Mick Nazerali asked for a motion to approve the meeting’s agenda.
Zach Fredrickson motioned to adopt the agenda, Jordan Vorderbrueggen seconded and
the motion passed unanimously.
b. MOTION: Chairman Mick Nazerali asked for a motion to approve the meeting minutes
from November 8, 2023. Rod Schwartz motioned to adopt the minutes, Jordan
Vorderbrueggen seconded and the motion passed unanimously.
3. ANNOUNCEMENTS:
a. PAFC Maintenance Shutdown week, March 9-17, 2024.
b. Annual Egg Hunt, Saturday, March 30 at Kruegel Park.
c. Underwater Egg Hunt, Saturday, March 30, at PAFC from 2-5pm.
d. 2024 Sponsorship packet is available and we have received a few sponsorship inquiries.
e. Currently working on the Department Status-2023 Report Card.
4. REPORTS:
a. AQUATIC CENTER: DJ Mackie reported in Megan Vining’s absence. DJ reported to the
commission about all the activities, programs, events and rentals that the aquatic center
has held since November 2023.
b. PARKS: Kurt Dahmen reported on all the tasks that the Parks department has
accomplished since November. He noted that the City has been awarded the Arbor Day
Association Tree City award for the 27th year.
c. RECREATION: DJ Mackie reported in Megan Vining’s absence. DJ reported on all the
programs and activities offered through the Recreation Department, the Pullman
Recreation Center, and other facilities since November. DJ noted that there has been a
consistent use of the walking track and open gym programs despite the winter weather.
d. SENIOR CENTER: DJ Mackie reported in Megan Vining’s absence on all the programs,
activities and events that the senior center has held or participated in since November.

5. PROJECT UPDATE:
a. 2023 Bond & Capital Improvement Projects.
i. Kurt Dahmen reported on the work done by the Parks department with Bond
and CIP monies in 2023.
b. 2024 Upcoming Projects.
i. Kurt Dahmen reported on what will be done in 2024 to complete some
outstanding projects, and start new ones this coming year.
1. Finish Thatuna Field shelter.
2. Pave the parking lot at Sunnyside Park.
3. Placement of small shelter at Sunnyside Park.
4. Upgrade power outlets at the Pullman RV Park.
5. Replace lap pool liner at Reaney Park Pool.
6. Begin process of constructing new pickleball courts as part of the City
Playfield complex.
ii. Parks, Recreation, and Open Spaces (PROS Plan) implementation, which will
replace the in-house 5-yr Plan with public involvement and strategies for
growth.
iii. Cemetery expansion will continue with construction to start this summer.
6. NEW BUSINESS:
a. DOWNTOWN PROJECT: Kurt Dahmen reported to the commission that a bid for the
project was accepted by City Council. Kurt expressed that per City Code, this commission
serves as the Urban Forestry Advisory Council (UFAC) and the Parks Superintendent is
the Municipal Arborist. Kurt noted that per City Code: No tree growing within the public
right-of-way shall be removed without the approval of the municipal arborist if the trunk
of the tree is greater than four inches in diameter measured at a point 12 inches above
the ground or if the height of the tree exceeds 20 feet. Approved replacement trees will
be required to be planted. Kurt detailed that with the downtown project the majority of
trees will be impacted by utility work and need to be removed, and new trees planted as
part of the project. Chairman, Mick Nazerali asked the UFAC for a motion recommending
the Municipal Arborist grant approval to Apollo Inc., contractor of the Pullman
Downtown Improvement Project to proceed with removal of trees on Main Street as
called out in the contract documents. Zach Fredrickson moved to allow Kurt Dahmen to
make tree removal decisions, Rod Schwartz seconded and the motion passed
unanimously.
b. BILL CHIPMAN PALOUSE TRAIL: Kurt Dahmen reported that the Whitman County Parks
& Recreation department is going to be replacing the trail bridge that was burnt last
summer. He noted the Palouse Trail Committee that consists of Whitman County,
Washington State University, City of Moscow, University of Idaho, and City of Pullman
each contribute $10,000 annually for trail maintenance and future capital projects such
as this bridge replacement project. At the Palouse Trail Committee meeting on February
13, 2024, the Committee voted to use $50,000 dollars from reserves and each of the
five entities contribute an additional $40,000 for the bridge replacement project. Kurt

asked for a motion from the commission to contribute additional non-metro parks funds
for the bridge replacement project. Chairman Mick Nazerali asked for a motion to
approve the funding, excluding the use of metro-parks funds, to contribute to the bridge
replacement project. Rod Schwartz moved to accept the motion, Jordan
Vorderbrueggen seconded and the motion passed unanimously.
7. ADJOURNMENT:
a. MOTION: Chairman Mick Nazerali asked for a motion to adjourn the regular meeting of
the Pullman Parks & Recreation Commission. Zach Fredrickson moved to adjourn the
meeting, Jordan Vorderbrueggen seconded and the motion passed unanimously.
b. The meeting was adjourned at 12:45 pm, Wednesday, February 14, 2024.

