Special Lodging Tax Advisory Commission Minutes
Pullman, WA 99163
2:00 pm
Thursday, September 19, 2024

Members present
Pat Wright, Megan Guido PJ Sanchez, Meghan Wiley, Tony Poston

Meeting began at 2:06 p.m.

A. Roll Call
Action, Roll Call, Motions: 1.
Members Present: Pat Wright, Megan Guido, PJ Sanchez, Meghan Wiley, Tony Poston
Members Absent: Tim Cordodor
C. Agenda
1. Dispense with the reading of the minutes of the meeting of June 11, 2024 and approve them as
submitted.

Action, Minutes, Motions
A Motion to dispense with the reading of the minutes of the meeting minutes of June 11, 2024 and approve
them as submitted.
Motion by PJ Sanchez, second by Megan Guido
Yea: Meghan Wiley, PJ Sanchez, Pat Wright, Megan Guido and Tony Poston
Absent for Vote: Tim Cordodor
Final Resolution: Motion Carries

2. Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport Funding
Action, Motions
Mike Urban and Jeff Elbracht attended the LTAC meeting to explain the background and answer questions regarding
the grant request for the $500,000.00 for the Pullman Moscow Regional Airport Terminal Project request. Mike
explained that Pullman City Council had already pledged $2 Million to the PMRA Terminal Project. LTAC had already
passed a motion recommending that $1.5 million be paid out of the Civic Improvement Fund. With the reserve funds
in the Civic Improvement fund currently at $3.1 Million City Staff felt this was the best choice of fund to request the
remaining $500,000.00 to fulfill the Pullman City Council’s pledge to PMRA. As the PMRA Construction Project comes
to completion—it will end with $0 debt on the terminal and runway realignment projects. Mike also reminded the
Commission of the $250,000.00 currently set aside towards potential future funding of a local match for the Small
Community Air Development Grant (carrier stabilization) approved by the City Council on December 15, 2020.
The Commission spoke on the great impression the new terminal made as visitor’s flew in to Pullman. They also
talked about hoping to increase the presence of tourism materials at the airport. It was stated that the PMRA is a
lifeline to Palouse and has potential for growth.

A motion to approve the grant request for $500,000.00 to the City of Pullman for the Pullman Moscow Regional
Airport terminal construction and fulfilling the $2million dollar pledge made by the Pullman City Council.
Motion by Tony Poston, second by Meghan Wiley
Yea: Meghan Wiley, Tony Poston, Megan Guido, and Pat Wright
Absent for Vote: Tim Cordodor and PJ Sanchez

Final Resolution: Motion Carries

3. American Junior Golf Association Grant Application 2025

Action, Motions
American Junior Golf Association applied for a grant for Summer 2025. Alexis Foran spoke on the 2024
event in July. She noticed that the parking lot was full and she was pleased with the “Visit Pullman” towels
the AJGA provided. Commission members felt the AJGA had used “local” where possible. However, one of
the local hotels noted they were down on reservations. The Commission also spoke on what great
exposure the tournament is for Pullman and the golf course. It was noticed how many participants come
from out of state (98), as well as, 208 that came from more than 50 miles away. A commissioner also
noted that when AJGA first came this was something that the WSU Golf coaches was hoping to see and
that if the AJGA is an important part of Junior Golfers moving on successfully. However, as the
commission worksheet scoring reflected some concerns from the commissioners, it was discussed to table
the vote on the grant request and to explore gathering greater information from local vendors to
determine the economic vitality it brings to Pullman. Alexis Foran with the Pullman Chamber of
Commerce was going to work to gather this information. The Commission was also hoping to hear from
Commission member Tim Cordodor on his perspective of the impact of the hotel he manages. A motion to
table the vote and gather this information was made.
A motion to table the vote on the AJGA Grant request for $40K for the 2025 AJGA tournament until the
next meeting and obtain more information on the economic impact.
Motion by PJ Sanchez, second by Meghan Wiley
Yea: Meghan Wiley, Pat Wright, PJ Sanchez, and Megan Guido
Absent for Vote: Tony Poston and Tim Cordodor
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
4. Tourism Report--Pullman Chamber of Commerce May, June, July and August 2024
Alexis Foran spoke on the success of Lentil Festival. It stayed busy all day and was enjoyed by many! The parade
also went well, even with the amended route. Downtown Vibes was well received and they look forward to making this
a part of the Festival again next year. The commission did talk about using Lentil Festival to help cross promote the
Walk of Fame. The Commission did talk about the viability of closing Downtown, however, it is very difficult to close
due to being part of a state highway. Social media hits also increased during this time. The Commission noted it’s
great to see successful events in Pullman and we need to create more. Pullman really needs vitality and growth to
continue to create these successful events.
It was asked that the Commission review the other attached information on their own due to time constraints.

5. Budget Updates for Tourism Contract and External Grants
Due to time constraints it was asked that this be looked during the next scheduled meeting.

6. Grant Reimbursement Reviews--External Grant Payments
Due to time constraints it was asked that this be looked during the next scheduled meeting.

D. Adjournment
Action, Adjournment, Motions: 1.
A motion to adjourn the special meeting of the Lodging Tax Advisory Commission.

Motion by Megan Guido, second by PJ Sanchez
Yea: Pat Wright, Meghan Wiley, PJ Sanchez and Meghan Wiley
Absent for Vote: Tim Cordodor and Tony Poston
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Meeting ended at 3:13 p.m.

______________________________________________
Shantel Sanders, Secretary & Administrative Liaison

