Lodging Tax Advisory Commission Meeting (Tuesday, May 14, 2024)
Generated by Shantel Sanders on Thursday, June 6, 2024

Lodging Tax Advisory Commission Minutes
Pullman, WA 99163
2:00 pm
Tuesday, May 14th, 2024

Members present
Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Tim Cordodor, Tony Poston, PJ Sanchez, Meghan Wiley

Meeting began at 2:03 p.m.

A. Roll Call
Action, Roll Call, Motions: 1.
Members Present: Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Tim Cordodor, Tony Poston, PJ Sanchez, Meghan Wiley

B. Presentations
City Administrator, Mike Urban, did a presentation for the LTAC Commission. Mike explained how the fund was
created and codified. He explained what was subject to Lodging Tax and the rates. He also spoke on the
Civic Improvement Fund, and how the expenditures were codified for Pullman City. Mike also discussed the
membership of the LTAC and the differing entities that had to be represented and what was required for voting
and actions to be taken. Criteria for evaluation of grants was also discussed and what the code stated should
be anticipated by the applicant. The Tourism Promotion agreement was also discussed including costs and
how it fit in with the Civic Improvement Fund and percentages spent. Also noted was the relationship between
LTAC and City Council and updating City Council.
C. Agenda
1. Dispense with the reading of the minutes of the meeting of February 13, 2023, and approve them as
submitted.

Action, Minutes, Motions
Due to time constraints, these minutes will be approved at the next meeting.
2. Tourism Report--Pullman Chamber of Commerce January, February, March and April 2024

Information
Due to time constraints, these will be reviewed at the next meeting.
3. Palouse Summer Series 2024 Grant Application

The commission discussed where the extra funds above the cost of umpires would be used—PSS is hiring
a marketing consultant to help with promotion and marketing. Tony Poston also talked about the need to
work on the field issues that PSS is dealing with. WSU has limited the additional games played on their
fields. This is forcing more games to be played in surrounding communities. While this is positive for the
region, teams want to play local. This highlights the need for a local (Pullman) sports facility to increase

the ability to keep teams in Pullman and those coming to Pullman in Pullman. Overall PSS is a strong
event that brings many new people to Pullman and the Commission is happy to support it.

Action, Minutes, Motions
Motion: A motion to accept the Lodging Tax Grant for up to the full amount requested of $49,735.00 to
Palouse Summer Series.
Motion by PJ Sanchez, second by Tony Poston
Yea: Meghan Wiley, Tim Cordodor, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, PJ Sanchez, Tony Poston
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
4. Promotional Video Series in Cooperation with Cougs First! 2024 Grant Application

The Commission noted that this video was already under production. It was explained that the opportunity
arose with the talent being used here for another project. Concern was expressed that this features
businesses—will these still be here as the video ages? They are stable long-term Pullman businesses and
the “B” roll will also provide additional needed “Media” library for Pullman marketing and promotion.
Included in the video are shots of the new airport, local businesses and events.
Action, Minutes, Motions
Motion: A motion to accept the Lodging Tax Grant for up to the full amount requested of $12,000.00 to
Pullman Chamber of Commerce for the Promotional Video Series in Cooperation with Cougs First!.
.
Motion by Tim Cordodor, second by PJ Sanchez
Yea: Meghan Wiley, Tony Poston, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Tim Cordodor, PJ Sanchez
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
5. Pullman Chamber of Commerce Three Forks River and Arts Festival 2024 Grant Application

The Commission noted this was a late application. However, the Commission also spoke of the success of
this event last year. They also noted the excellent timing of this event—both during the May to August
months of the years and bringing people to downtown during the Downtown project. The Commission
asked that future requests be placed in a timely manner.
Action, Minutes, Motions
Motion: A motion to accept the Lodging Tax Grant for up to the full amount requested of $8887.00 to
Pullman Chamber of Commerce for the Three Forks River and Arts Festival.
.
Motion by Tony Poston, second by Megan Guido
Yea: Meghan Wiley, PJ Sanchez, Pat Wright, Tony Poston, Megan Guido
Absent for Vote: PJ Sanchez, Tim Cordodor
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
6. Promote Pullman Summertime Shop then Savor 2024 Grant Application

The Commission’s primary concern with this application is partnerships with other local Pullman
organizations and ensuring that there is not a duplication of events or efforts. The Commission
appreciates that this activity is to draw residents and visitors into downtown and support local businesses
during the summer months when there are fewer events.
Action, Minutes, Motions
Motion: A motion to grant a Lodging Tax Grant for up to $3000.00 to Promote Pullman LLC for
Summertime Shop the Savor.
Motion by Tony Poston, second by Meghan Wiley
Yea: Megan Guido, Pat Wright, Tony Poston, Meghan Wiley
Absent for Vote: PJ Sanchez, Tim Cordodor

Final Resolution: Motion Carries

D. Adjournment
Action, Adjournment, Motions: 1.
A motion to adjourn the regular meeting of the Lodging Tax Advisory Commission.

Motion by Megan Guido, second by Tony Poston.
Yea: Pat Wright, Meghan Wiley, Megan Guido, Tony Poston
Absent for Vote: Tim Cordodor, PJ Sanchez
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Meeting ended at 4:03 p.m.

______________________________________________
Shantel Sanders, Secretary & Administrative Liaison

