Regular Council Meeting (Tuesday, August 27, 2024)
Generated by Dee Stiles-Elliott on Thursday, August 29, 2024

City of Pullman
Council Minutes
City Council Chambers
190 SE Crestview Street
Pullman, WA 99163
7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, August 27, 2024
Members present
Mayor Francis Benjamin, Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De
Lira, and Trymaine Gaither.
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m.
A. Call to Order
Action, Motion: 1. Roll Call
A motion to excuse Councilmember Weller.
Motion by Pat Wright, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine
Gaither
B. Announcements
Mayor Benjamin made six announcements.
C. Community Comments
Juliet Berenti from Inland Empire for Israel addressed the council about antisemitic
comments by the Pullman Islamic Association Imam.
D. City Councilmember Comments
Councilmember Parks thanked Motley & Motley, and city staff for completing street
projects on Hall Drive and Crestview Street.
Councilmember Guido announced the Home Owner Resource Fair had been moved to
October 5, 2024.
E. Mayor's Comments
Mayor Benjamin had no comments.
F. Committee, Commission, Board Reports
There were no reports.
G. City Council and Mayor Future Regular Agenda Requests
There were no requests.
H. Community Comments on Final Action Items for this Agenda
There were no comments.

I. Confirmation of Appointments
There were no appointments.
J. Presentations
Presentations: 1. 2023 Excellence Award for Best City Project - WSDOT/FHWA
Representatives from the Washington State Department of Transportation and the
Federal Highway Administration presented the City of Pullman with a 2023 Excellence
Award for the Arterial Streets Resurfacing Project.
Presentations: 2. Whitman County Election Process
Whitman County Auditor Sandy Jamison and Whitman County Elections Supervisor Mich
Stanley provided an overview of the voting process, including ballot creation, distribution,
return, and counting. They answered questions about voter registration, citizenship
verification, and the administrative process of running an election.
Public Works Director Sean Wells provided an update on the Grand Avenue water break,
including the cause, the response, and the repair process. Director Wells explained the
small impact on businesses and residents in the area and the steps taken to restore water
service quickly.
At 7:50 p.m., Mayor Benjamin adjourned the City Council meeting and convened the
Transportation Benefit District Meeting.
At 8:11 p.m., Mayor Benjamin adjourned the Transportation Benefit District Meeting and
reconvened the Pullman City Council Meeting.
K. Consent Agenda.
The items listed under the consent agenda are considered to be routine in nature
and will be enacted by a single motion of the City Council without separate
discussion.
Action: 1. A motion to read the Consent Agenda by title only.
Motion by Megan Guido, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine
Gaither
L. Consent Agenda items
Action (Consent), Minutes: 1.
A motion to dispense with the reading of the August 13, 2024, regular meeting
minutes and approve them as submitted.
Action (Consent), Motion: 2.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
20112208 through 20112253 totaling $1,756,006.04
Action (Consent), Motion: 3.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
20112254 through 20112390 totaling $1,784,529.18
Action (Consent), Motion: 4.

A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks; Electronic
Transfers; and ADP Payroll Transfers totaling $1,706,627.31
Action (Consent), Motion: 5.
A motion to approve a 2024 WSU Football Agreement for fire department EMS
services for six home football games.
Mayor Benjamin asked the Council if they would like any consent agenda items
removed for further discussion. There were none.
Motion by Ann Parks, second by Trymaine Gaither, to approve consent agenda items
one through five as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine
Gaither
M. Public Hearing
There was not a public hearing.
N. Regular Agenda
Assistant Fire Chief Andrew Chiavaras explained that the fire department applied for and
was awarded the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) for technical rope rescue and
confined space rescue training for the upcoming 2025 budget year. The training grant
totals $93,010, including contractual overtime and logistical costs for external instructors
to train and test department personnel.
The AFG grant funds $84,554.54 for training, with the City of Pullman’s obligation being
$8,455.46.
The Fire Department had planned to budget approximately $10,000 to send personnel to
outside training for technical rescue classes in 2025. This grant will allow us to host two
in-house courses providing technician-level certification in high-angle rope and confined
space rescue to up to 16 personnel per class.
Action, Motion: 1.
A motion to authorize the acceptance of the (FY) 2023 Assistance to Firefighters
Grant award.
Motion by Megan Guido, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine
Gaither
O. Discussion Items
Discussion Items: 1. Goals & Priorities Work Groups
Mayor Benjamin explained that with the goal of Strategic Influences and Partnerships
with local, regional, state, and national entities, the work will fall on the Mayor, City
Administrator, and City Staff. The Mayor and the City Administrator will bring ideas to
the Council for discussion and consideration.
Discussion Items: 2. 2025 Legislative Priorities
The Mayor and Council discussed the 2025 Legislative Priorities, focusing on continuing
support for in-town railways, Highway 26 passing lane, housing affordability, and
childcare facilities. The Mayor explained that the Council must choose which priorities to
ask our legislators for support to accomplish.

P. New Business
Mayor Benjamin asked if any new business would come before the Council. There was
none.
Q. Executive Session
An Executive Session was not called.
R. Adjournment
Action: 1. A motion to adjourn the regular meeting of Pullman City Council.
Motion by Trymaine Gaither, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine
Gaither
The meeting adjourned at 8:37 p.m.

_____________________________
City Clerk Dee Stiles-Elliott

