Regular Council Meeting (Tuesday, February 27, 2024)
Generated by Dee Stiles-Elliott on Wednesday, February 28, 2024

City of Pullman
Council Minutes
City Council Chambers
190 SE Crestview Street
Pullman, WA 99163
7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, February 27, 2024
Members present
Mayor Benjamin, Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran,
Carla De Lira, and Trymaine Gaither.
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m.
A. Call to Order - Roll Call
B. Announcements
Mayor Benjamin made six announcements.
Mayor Benjamin proclaimed March 2024 as Red Cross Month.
C. Community Comments
Mayor Benjamin opened public comment to take any comments on consent or regular
agenda items on which the Council will take final action but excluded items where public
comment was previously accepted, including prior Public Hearings. There were no
comments.
D. City Councilmember Comments
Announcements: 1.
This agenda item is an opportunity for the City Council to bring comments, concerns, or
other non-agenda-related items to the attention of the other Elected Officials or the
Community.
De Lira = COAST survey for expanded transportation services.
Weller = thanked for bringing this to the Council's attention.
E. Mayor's Comments
Mayor Benjamin showed the nametag he had received from the previous weekend while
volunteering for the Whitman County Humane Society's 16th Annual Furball fundraising
event. Mayor Benjamin expressed his support of the annual event.
F. Committee, Commission, Board Reports
There were no reports.
G. City Council and Mayor Future Regular Agenda Requests
Councilmember Fejeran requested United Way of Whitman County present an update
to the Council on the Imagination Library and other activities they have been working
on.
Councilmember Guido asked for an update from the Pullman Housing Exploratory Work
Group.

H. Community Comments on Final Action Items for this Agenda
There were no comments.
I. Confirmation of Appointments
There were no appointments.
J. Presentations
There were no presentations.
K. Consent Agenda.
The items listed under the consent agenda are considered to be routine in nature
and will be enacted by a single motion of the City Council without separate
discussion.
Action: 1. A motion to read the Consent Agenda by title only.
Motion by Pat Wright, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
L. Consent Agenda items
Action (Consent), Minutes: 1.
A motion to dispense with the reading of the February 6, 2024, special meeting
minutes and approve them as submitted.
Action (Consent), Minutes: 2.
A motion to dispense with the reading of the February 13, 2024, meeting minutes
and approve them as submitted.
Action (Consent): 3.
A motion to accept the Sidewalks 2023 contract as complete.
Action (Consent): 4.
A motion to accept the Bishop Blvd Resurfacing 2023 contract as complete.
Action (Consent): 5.
A motion to accept the Mary's Park Parking Lot contract as complete.
Action (Consent): 6.
A motion to accept the Arterial Streets Resurfacing 2023 contract as complete.
Action (Consent): 7.
A motion to ratify contract 23-11B, Kamiaken Waterline Replacement.
Action (Consent): 8.
A motion to ratify Change Order No. 1 to Contract 23-11B, Kamiaken Waterline
Replacement.

Action (Consent): 9.
A motion to accept Contract 23-11B, Kamiaken Waterline Replacement, as
complete.
Action (Consent): 10.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
2010517 through 2010572 totaling $128,026.88
Action (Consent): 11.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
2010573 through 2010675 totaling $4,510,209.53
Action (Consent): 12.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks, Electronic
Transfers, and ADP Payroll Transfers totaling $1,616,236.13
Action (Consent): 13.
A motion to authorize a Lodging Tax Grant to Cougs First! for an amount of up to
$15,000.00 for the Cougs First! QB Classic Golf Tournament.
Mayor Benjamin asked if the Council would like any consent agenda items removed for
further discussion. There were none.
Motion by Eric Fejeran, second by Megan Guido, to approve consent agenda items one
through thirteen as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
M. Public Hearing
There was no Public Hearing.
N. Regular Agenda
Community Development Director RJ Lott stated at the August 8, 2023, City Council
meeting Resolution No. R-38-23 was approved, placing a moratorium on enforcing
Pullman City Code sections related to motorized scooters and bicycles.
City Staff recommends extending the moratorium on enforcing electric scooters and
bicycles to December 31, 2024. The original sunset date is set as May 10, 2024. An
extension of the moratorium will allow for greater mobility throughout the City during
Project Downtown's construction of Main Street. It will also allow for the possibility of a
commercial contract for citywide use of electric scooters and bicycles. Extending the
moratorium while approving the Spin contract allows city staff to study data and identify
any problems or concerns.
Regular Agenda, Action, Resolution: 1.
RESOLUTION NO. R-13-24 - A RESOLUTION AMENDING RESOLUTION R-3823 AS IT RELATES TO THE SUNSET DATE ON THE MORATORIUM OF THE
ENFORCEMENT OF ELECTRIC SCOOTERS AND BICYCLES.
Motion by Megan Guido, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither

Community Development Director RJ Lott explained that accepting a contract with Spin
to provide electric scooters and bicycles throughout the city is an option, and the contract
can be renewed for 2025. The deployment would include up to 100 electric scooters and
50 electric bicycles, a prorated annual fee of $12,000 to the City by Spin, and a 20-cent
per ride fee. Spin will provide quarterly updates to the Community Development Director
on the progress statistics and provide insurance. There is no inclusion of helmets within
the contract.
A start date for the contract is not listed but will start at the City and Spin's mutual benefit
if the Council approves the contract.
Spin can provide geofencing to not allow Scooters and bicycles in the downtown or for
the project downtown construction to occur this summer, so there would be no conflict
with electric Scooters and bicycles. Spin did present to the City Council on July 19, 2022.
City Staff recommends a motion to execute the contract with Spin.
The Council asked questions about helmets, safety & rider training, and impacts on law
enforcement and their resources regarding helmet infractions & scooter or bike
impoundments.
City Administrator Mike Urban explained that helmets are required under Pullman City
Code 12.11.020.
Spin Director John Lankford explained they have several different incentives for helmets,
including taking a selfie at the end of the ride to receive a discount on their next ride, a
notification on the Spin app that notifies the rider that helmets are required, and placing
stickers on the scooters, helmet give-a-ways and bikes warning that helmets are required.
John further explained that the contract has a series of operation commitments from Spin,
and adding additional language for training, education, and safety courses to the contract
would not be an issue or problem.
The Council agreed to have City Staff return to Council with an amendment adding these
items to the next meeting's consent agenda.
Police Chief Jake Opgenorth explained that the department has a current policy for
retrieving abandoned bicycles and that the electric scooters would be handled similarly.
He also explained that enforcement of speed limits is not feasible as trucks and cars are
significantly larger than bikes or scooters. Enforcement of helmet use, etc., is difficult to
determine how it will impact the departments' workload as they don't have anything to
compare it with.
Regular Agenda, Action, Motion: 2.
A MOTION TO AUTHORIZE A CONTRACT WITH SPIN FOR ELECTRIC
SCOOTERS AND BICYCLES THROUGHOUT THE CITY OF PULLMAN ENDING
DECEMBER 31, 2024.
Motion by Megan Guido, second by Nathan Weller.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
O. Discussion Items
Discussion Items: 1. Project Downtown Discussion
Welch Comer Representatives Matt Gillis and Courtney Kramer presented the Council
with the communication plan for the Downtown Pullman Project and how the project will
be managed.

Courtney stated she has the pleasure of bringing the community into the conversation
and answering the questions they've been asking for two years. So many of these
questions couldn't be answered until we had a contractor on board.
Welch Comer has two upcoming Open Houses on Thursday, February 29, from 4:00 p.m.
to 6:00 p.m. at Gladish Community Center. The open house is an informal event where
people rotate from station to station.
The second will be a design Open House workshop, which will be the same concept of
visiting stations to answer any questions a community member might have about design
as it might apply to their specific property.
Courtney further explained that Main Street will be closed to vehicular traffic for most of
the duration of the construction, businesses will be open, and temporary wayfinding
signage will be provided. Pedestrian access to business front doors will always be
maintained, except for a maximum of seven days per door. Welch Comer is committed
to ensuring customers can access businesses and that access is ADA compliant.
Welch Comer is committed to ensuring community members, property owners, and
business owners know to come to Welch Comer to liaise on mitigating construction
impacts, such as installing fire lines to businesses and managing water or sewer
interruptions.
The Downtown Pullman website will be the basis for sharing all other information. An
electronic newsletter will be available weekly to the community; the day of the week will
depend on the weekly construction check-in with the contractor.
There will be a texting service where if a community member texts the work "Pullman" to
59925, they will be enrolled in our texting service; anytime a website update, sharing of
the E-newsletter, or a critical piece of information needs to be distributed, they will receive
a text alert.
Recraft has been hired to provide videos about the project features and outcomes at least
monthly. It will feature some community members, businesses, and staff involved with
the project.
Welch Comer will build specific social media platforms on Facebook and Instagram for
the Downtown Pullman Project to inform the public further.
Matt explained that the city uses and utilizes GPS, an efficient way to track, quantify,
process, and understand data. One of the datasets the city tracks is parking and parking
stalls. When Main Street is closed for the Downtown Pullman Project, 106 parking stalls
will be temporarily eliminated. They will convert Olson Street to angle parking and
increase the stall numbers to mitigate the lost parking stalls. Apollo will complete the
installation of the stalls before the project begins.
Customers will have access to 445 parking stalls within one to two blocks from the
downtown corridor.
City Administrator Mike Urban explained that City Staff has proposed an ad hoc parking
group for the Downtown Pullman Project. City Staff recommends the Mayor chair the
group, with the Mayor Pro Tempore and Alternate Mayor Pro Tempore serving on the
Committee because they've already been appointed and elected by your group as due
process. The Police Chief, Fire Marshal, and City Engineer would also serve on the
Committee for transportation, fire, and traffic mediation.
The City Council agreed to listen to the community; a good plan on paper might not work
as intended, and we need the Council to make changes immediately. The Committee
would meet once a week and as issues arise.
City Administrator Mike Urban will return at the next meeting with a Resolution creating
the Ad Hoc Parking Committee.

City Administrator Mike Urban stated he has been researching a replacement emergency
notification software for the city's Everbridge and could have an agenda item ready for
the Council's consideration at the next meeting.
P. New Business
Information: 1.
This agenda item is for the City Council, Mayor or City Staff to bring new items
forward that are in need of timely attention and only presented itself after the
publication of this agenda.
There was no new business from the City Council, Mayor, or City Staff.
Q. Executive Session
At 8:44 p.m., Mayor Benjamin announced at this time the City Council would adjourn to
an Executive Session pursuant to RCW 42.30.110(1)(c) to consider the minimum price at
which real estate will be offered for sale or lease when public knowledge regarding such
consideration would cause a likelihood of decreased price, provided final action selling or
leasing public property shall be taken in a meeting open to the public.
The Executive Session is expected to last approximately 10 minutes. If it becomes
necessary to extend the Executive Session, someone will return to announce the
anticipated additional time needed by the City Council.
The Council may take action following the Executive Session.
The Executive Session began at 8:50 p.m.
An announcement was made at 9:00 p.m. that the Council would be extending its
Executive Session for 5 minutes.
An announcement was made at 9:05 p.m. that the Council would be extending its
Executive Session for 2 minutes.
R. Adjournment
Action: 1. A motion to adjourn the regular meeting of Pullman City Council.
Motion by Nathan Weller, second by Eric Fejeran
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
The meeting adjourned at 9:07 p.m.

_____________________________
City Clerk Dee Stiles-Elliott

