  SPECIAL Council Meeting - Interview & Selection of Ward 1 Councilmember. (Tuesday, January 16, 2024)
Generated by Dee Stiles-Elliott on Wednesday, January 24, 2024
  City of Pullman
Council Minutes
City Council Chambers
190 SE Crestview Street
Pullman, WA 99163
7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, January 16, 2024
    Members present
  Mayor Francis Bejamin, Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, and Carla de Lira.
  The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m.
  A. Roll Call.
  B. Agenda
  Discussion: 1. Interview and Selection of Ward 1 City Council Member
Mayor Benjamin explained that the city had received 15 applications for the Ward 1 position, one person backed over the weekend, and the Council would be interviewing 14 candidates.
The Mayor further explained that because this was a special meeting, there would be no public comment as part of the meeting. The meeting was anticipated to be three hours, and time limits would be strictly enforced. There was a timer on the large screens in the council chambers for the candidates and the public to monitor the countdown. Each candidate's time started when they were called on, not when they began speaking. 
Each candidate was given two minutes for an opening statement, and based on the Council's seniority, each councilmember would ask the candidates a question. Each candidate will have one minute to answer the question. 
Discussion: 2. Executive Session
  Mayor Benjamin announced the city council would adjourn to an Executive Session pursuant to RCW 42.30.110(1)(h) to evaluate the qualifications of a candidate for appointment to public office provided any interview of such candidate and final action appointing a candidate to elective office shall be in a meeting open to the public. 
No decisions or votes happen in the executive session. Any action will be taken in a public meeting. The Executive Session is expected to last 15 minutes. If it becomes necessary to extend the Executive Session, someone will return to announce the anticipated additional time needed. The city council does anticipate taking action following the Executive Session.
  The Executive Session began at 9:42 p.m.
  At 9:57 p.m., City Administrator Mike Urban announced the City Council would extend the Executive Session for 15 minutes. 
  At 10:12 p.m., City Administrator Mike Urban announced the City Council would extend the Executive Session for 5 minutes. 
  10:17 p.m.,  City Administrator Mike Urban announced the City Council would extend the Executive Session for 5 minutes. 
  At 10:22 p.m.,  City Administrator Mike Urban announced the City Council would extend the Executive Session for 5 minutes. 
  At 10:27 p.m., City Administrator Mike Urban announced the City Council would extend the Executive Session for 5 minutes.
  At 10:32 p.m., City Administrator Mike Urban announced the City Council would extend the Executive Session for 3 minutes. 
  At 10:35 p.m., City Administrator Mike Urban announced the City Council would extend the Executive Session for 3 minutes. 
  At 10:38 p.m., City Administrator Mike Urban announced the City Council would extend the Executive Session for 3 minutes. 
  At 10:41 p.m., City Administrator Mike Urban announced the City Council would extend the Executive Session for 3 minutes. 
  At 10:44 p.m., City Administrator Mike Urban announced the City Council would extend the Executive Session for 3 minutes. 
  At 10:47 p.m. Mayor Benjamin reconveened the Special Meeting of Pullman City Council. 
  Action, Motions: 3. Appointment of Ward 1 City Council Member
  Councilmember Ann Parks motioned to appoint Trymain Gaither to the Ward One Council Seat. 
  Motion by Megan Guido, second by Nathan Weller.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla de Lira
  C. Adjournment.
  A motion to adjourn the Special Meeting of Pullman City Council.
  Motion by Megan Guido, second by Nathan Weller.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla de Lira
  The meeting adjourned at 10:50 p.m.
          _______________________________
City Clerk Dee Stiles-Elliott
 