SPECIAL Council Meeting - Award Project Downtown
Generated by Dee Stiles-Elliott on Thursday, February 8, 2024
  City of Pullman
Special Council Minutes
City Council Chambers
190 SE Crestview Street
Pullman, WA 99163
12:00 p.m.
Tuesday, February 6, 2024
      Members present
  Mayor Benjamin, Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, and Trymaine Gaither.
  The meeting was called to order at 12:00 p.m.
  A. Roll Call
  B. Public Comment
  Mayor Benjamin opened up the public comment at 12:03 p.m.  He explained this is where a person may comment on an agenda item that the city council will take final action at this meeting.
  This time allows community members to participate in the process; public comment takes many forms: one-on-one conversations, phone calls, emails, and public meeting comments.  No one form should take a higher precedent.  It is inappropriate for the City Council to respond during public comment time.  The City has a code of conduct that the city council and staff abide by, and we request that the community also abide by that code of conduct.  Also, public comment remarks should be made to the chair, not to a specific staff member or audience.  To be considered for public comment, you need to sign up ahead of time as a part of the meeting.  Comments for special meetings are limited to one agenda item before the Council.  All Comments need to be pertinent to this item.  The one agenda item being considered today is to approve or deny the bid before us.  This agenda item is the only thing the city council will act on.  The city council has called for the special meeting to be held during this lunchtime.  Mayor Benjamin explained that each person would have two minutes to speak, and you could not transfer your time to another person speaking;  he would provide a 15-second warning before their time was up.
  Several Pullman Residents and business owners opposed the Downtown Pullman Improvement Project and asked the Council to deny the contract. 
  Several Pullman Residents asked the Council to move forward with the Downtown Pullman Improvement Project and award the contract to Apollo, Inc.
  Deputy Public Works Director Clayton Forsmann explained the scope of contract 23-10, Pullman Downtown Improvements, consists of the improvement of East Main Street between N. Grand Avenue and SE Spring Street, including water/sewer/storm mains, full road and sidewalk construction, traffic and pedestrian signal construction, landscaping, and street furniture. 
  Pullman Downtown Improvement Project is a City Council Goal & Priority included in the City’s approved Capital Improvement Program.
  The project was initially advertised on October 18 and 25, 2023, with bids due on November 30, 2023.  However, no bids were submitted.  Under the City Council’s direction, the project was re-scoped to include a longer contract time to complete the work, a higher incentive for early completion, and lower liquidated damages.  The project was re-advertised, and bids for the re-scoped project were opened on January 25, 2024, with four proposals received.  The low bidder was Apollo, Inc., with a base bid of $8,678,907.59, 11% above the Engineer’s Estimate of $7,820,987.17. 
  The bid schedule also includes bid additives for benches, trash receptacles, bicycle racks, raised planter boxes, wayfinding signage, and utility work at Pine Street Plaza, including stormwater and sanitary sewer improvements.  The decision to include bid additives was made at the City Council meeting of February 28, 2023, as there was a concern at that time that there may not be enough funds to complete the work identified in these bid additives, which could easily be split from the project and be completed at a future date.  The City can award any combination of bid additives, and there is no obligation to award any of the bid additives. 
  The bid additive work at the Pine Street Plaza (bid additive no. 6 schedules A and B) includes three alternates (A, B, and C).  These alternates were chosen to provide options on how Pine Street Plaza is resurfaced (Alternate A-concrete, Alternate B-new pavers, Alternate C-salvage, and reinstall existing pavers), which is necessary given the utility work proposed in the plaza. 
  City Staff completed a thorough review of the bid prices.  Although higher than the engineer’s estimate, comparing the other three bids confirms that the price increases reflect the actual price to complete the project work.  In summary, the bid submitted by Apollo, Inc. is fair and representative of the project work. 
  The project is expected to begin construction as early as April 1, 2024, and Main Street is expected to be fully open to traffic by October 15, 2024.  If the Contractor opens Main Street before October 15, 2024, they will earn an incentive of $5,000 per day, up to a maximum possible incentive of 20 days.  All work is expected to be substantially completed by November 1, 2024, with physical completion expected by November 22, 2024. 
  It was proposed that the project be funded entirely using $9.5 million from the American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA).  To date, approximately $1.8 million have already been spent on the project (survey, data collection, traffic analysis, preliminary design, public engagement, project website and communications, final project design, bid phase services, WSDOT review fees, and water meter costs to be supplied by the City).  The remaining $7.7 million ARPA balance will only cover a portion of the base bid amount.  In addition, project costs for construction management, construction inspection, materials testing, contract administration, and public outreach must also be considered.  These are estimated at $1.15 million.

Additionally, Public Works staff advises the City Council to consider including bid additive 6 (Pine Street Plaza utilities schedule A and B) with any contract award because it will replace the plaza’s sanitary sewer and stormwater pipes.  The existing 12-inch diameter stormwater pipe is undersized for anticipated stormwater flows.  A 24-inch diameter pipe is necessary to remove this existing hydraulic bottleneck and help alleviate potential flooding concerns.  Completing this utility work later is not preferred from a stormwater perspective and will provide unnecessary additional construction impacts and costs at a future time. 
  Attached to this agenda item is a potential project budget summary for reference.  After consultation with the Finance & Administrative Services Director, City Administrator, and the Mayor, options for additional funding sources necessary to award the contract to Apollo, Inc. have been identified.  Using these resources would not negatively affect current City operations, nor would they unnecessarily delay planned projects.  If the project is approved, any budget amendments will be prepared and brought before the City Council for further discussion and final approval at a future City Council meeting. 
  City Staff has prepared a resolution for the City Council to authorize awarding Contract 23-10, Pullman Downtown Improvement, to Apollo, Inc.  However, the resolution has been prepared to allow the City Council flexibility to award any combination of bid additives.
  C. Agenda
  Action, Resolution: 1.
  RESOLUTION NO. R-08-24 A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING THE BID OF APOLLO, INC. FOR THE PULLMAN DOWNTOWN IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT AND AUTHORIZING EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THE CONTRACT FOR SAID PROJECT.
  Motion by Pat Wright, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Trymaine Gaither
Nay: Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
  Mayor Benjamin opened up the discussion on the proposed resolution. 
  Councilmember Fejeran read from his prepared statement:  As we stand at a significant crossroads for our City.  I want to first extend my sincere gratitude to our staff.  Your dedication and tireless efforts in advancing the Pullman Downtown Project have not gone unnoticed.  Your commitment embodies the spirit of service and community we cherish in Pullman.  So I just wanted you for that.  I also want to acknowledge our downtown businesses.  Your engagement and forthright communication have been instrumental in shaping our standing regarding the project’s impact.  And I’ve listened intently to your concerns and agree that a thriving downtown is not just desirable but essential for the growth of Pullman.  As we envision the transformation of downtown from a large town to a small city, the journey ahead must be paved with decisions that reflect our collective aspirations, uphold our financial prudence, and foster a sense of communal well-being.  After careful consideration, I must personally express my motivations.  Project downtown Pullman, while ambitious, does not fully align with our core financial realities and the needs of our community.  It is essential that our growth is balanced, inclusive, and reflective of all the voices of the stakeholders.  I will vote no on awarding the project bid in its current form.  This is not a step back but a stride towards ensuring that when we do move forward, we do so for the right fit for Pullman. 
  Councilmember Wright stated she had something she would like to read.  First off, last week, I was misquoted as having said that this is just an infrastructure project.  I never said that this was just an infrastructure project, but only the basis of what this project needs to start with.  Because if we don’t address the infrastructure, then all the rest is just window dressing and will just not happen.  So we do absolutely have to address that.  And with that, I will read something sent to me and all of the Council.  But I think that it is important enough to make it part of today’s record.  And that is again in regard to infrastructure.
  The email states: We urge you and the rest of the city council to do the responsible thing and accept a bid for the Downtown Project today.  There is no downtown without a healthy infrastructure.  Your vote will ensure that the downtown area is available for generations to come.  We have every reason to believe that the infrastructure is dangerously fragile.  No one wants downtown close to do the necessary work.  But the refusal to do so now will result in an emergency situation at some point in the future, probably the near future, as the infrastructure fails.  At that point, the closure will be immediate and indefinite, or the ARPA dollars will have been returned, and the City will have to foot the whole bill.  Now, the Council and the residents of Pullman should turn our focus on supporting the downtown businesses during construction.  We ask that you stand courageously against the handful of angry voices that would have you delay the project and ultimately kill downtown.  It seems today you are standing alone.  Please know that we and many other Pullmanites and future residents stand with you.  Thank you for your work.  Doug Habib and Becky Duben sent this email.
  With that having been said, I’m not going to mention one more thing relative to infrastructure.  And I think those of you who know me and have watched me over the years know that I don’t comment just for the sake of commenting.  I try to comment whenever I feel it adds value to the current discussion.  So, these comments that I’m going to make now come from my heart.  It may seem like it’s coming from a wallet; in some cases, it might be, but it truly is coming from the heart.  And like Eric, I wanted to ensure all my salient points were covered.  So, I have prepared these comments.
  I have lived in Pullman since 1975.  Over the years, I have seen Pullman become a growing and successful community.  Pullman is recognized for Educational Excellence, having access to education at exceptional health care through Pullman Regional Hospital, and our amazing medical community, having a vibrant and growing business complex anchored predominantly by SEL, and various other entities contributing to the commercial landscape of Pullman.  And last but not least, extraordinary citizens.  A strong relationship with WSU has been developed through ongoing communication and collaboration with the administration, faculty, staff, and students.  Someone from the outside may ask what’s left.  Downtown has long been a source of discussion characterized mainly by these remarks. It’s a there’s nothing for kids. There’s nothing to do. There’s no parking.  When I have visitors, I never bring them downtown.  Downtown is the one area that keeps Pullman from achieving greatness.  A once-in-a-lifetime opportunity has presented itself to change that.  Thus enabling Pullman to make that leap from good to great.
  Resistance to this project has been voiced by segments of our community who fear businesses will be financially destroyed, tree canopy eliminated, debt and safety sacrificed, and accessibility denied.  Concerns have been heard.  Alternatives have been studied, and hundreds of hours have been invested in listening to and evaluating citizens’ and special interest groups’ comments. It’s clear no project is perfect, and pleasing everyone all the time is impossible, just as timing is never the best.  But our singular option at this time is to proceed with this plan.  Since being a member of the Pullman City Council, this is the most difficult decision I have faced.  As a city council member, it is my responsibility to help make policy decisions for the City, to keep our citizens safe and secure, and to be a good steward of taxpayer dollars.  Moving forward ensures that these responsibilities are carried out and, most importantly, positions Pullman for future success as it transitions as transitions.  As Eric and Nathan have said, as it transitions from a large town to a small city, fears and rumors are only assumptions that surround this project.  Once the contractors’ bid is awarded, those are dropped, and plans, timelines, and strategies can be developed and executed.
  The City is prepared to mitigate the project’s impact on the primary stakeholders, the public, and main street businesses.  And success in that is built on working together.  And we have a lot of work to do in that regard.  Communication on all levels is of primary importance and will occur regularly in all formats: in-person visits, print, social media, emails, verbal presentations, and town halls.  Hindsight, as we know, is always 2020.  We know communication will be ongoing throughout this project.  As a council member, I am committed to its success and efforts to mitigate negative input impact on all involved.  Yes, I am a member of the city council.  But first and foremost, I am a citizen of Pullman who desires to do the right thing for the right reason for the continued success and future of Pullman. 
  Councilmember Guido read from a prepared statement: I am a proud Pullmanite.  I moved here in 1976 from upstate New York when I was in fifth grade, and I am very familiar with the
downtown area. 
  The main reason I even decided to run as a council person is because of the importance of this project.  The Council has been called negligent if we vote to approve this bid.  As public officials are tasked with restoring the basic utilities that residents expect in a city, it would be negligent not to. We’ve already experienced double main water main breaks and a sewer backed up in at least one downtown business.  What can postponing a large project to upgrade and replace an 80-plus-year-old infrastructure accomplish? There’s never going to be a good time to do this.  The design may not be what everyone wants, but it’s solid.  We must realize that we have limited ARPA and city funds for changes.  Postponing the project and paying for a redesign is not practical. We’ve already spent over 1.5 million on design and other management of the project so far, and a redesign would eat into what we have left.  I know folks ages write grants, but the grants are never a guarantee quite far from it.  We need to move ahead on necessary projects while working to assist our downtown businesses with loans and other financial means, like fundraising campaigns.  In the long run, I believe this pain will be worth it.  We must work together, though, and not let this be a divisive project.  If you want to save downtown Pullman, get on board, shop locally, and help make this project successful.
  Councilmember Parks explained that she would not talk about everything said because she agrees with much of it.  What I want to talk about is everyone mentioned heart.  We are all public servants up here. We’re not here because we don’t have heart. We’re not here because we don’t care.  These city professionals. They’re not here because they don’t care. They’re highly trained professionals who could make much more money in the private sector, yet they choose to serve here.  So, I would like to make the point that we do care. That’s why we’re here.  As you all have suggested, we are committed to supporting businesses; the most significant way to do that is by shopping locally.  We need to work together to stop the divisiveness and negative comments.  Whatever decision is made, we need to work together, and I’m telling you that as a board and staff, we are here to do what we think is right, believe it or not, but that is truly why public servants serve. 
  Councilmember De Lirea read her prepared statement.  I want to thank everyone on the city staff for putting in work hours on this project and top of the City’s daily operations.  This project has been a lot of stress and work, and I now understand the work that went into this, so please know I do appreciate the work you’ve done.  So, over the last few weeks, as soon as I started this position, it became apparent that I needed to talk to every project stakeholder about their most recent thoughts.  Indeed, in the light of the six-month extension.  I had to make sure I was prepared to have an informed vote.  I needed to start with those who would be directly impacted daily.  Over the last few weeks, I have talked to many businesses downtown and have made contact with close to all through on-site business visits and phone calls.  I have talked to business owners, their employees, and concerned community members who support them.
  I’ve heard a wide range of thoughts; it was a great way to connect with the community.  Overall, it’s been a mix of emotions ranging from excitement to worry and a mix of both.  However, one of the things that became apparent in my conversations with downtown business owners is the lack of communication they have received.  A lot of prominent patterns came up in my conversations, concerned about how their businesses will be impacted financially, how they will get customers, whether a business will go out of business, whether they will still have their job, and how their thoughts and ideas were not implemented when they were engaged in the process.  I cannot, in good faith, advocate for this project as it currently stands because there is a disconnect between key stakeholders of the project and the way the project senses its current state.  I will vote to reject the bids because we need to actively seek out communications with stakeholders where they are and look at the ideas of those who have been actively engaged. I’m also very concerned about the impacts of being unable to afford this project.  Since we still need to use city resources to make up for the difference.  I need to know more than just the financial impacts on our City, beyond just downtown businesses.  I am not against infrastructure improvements, and I realized there is a risk to every project of this size.  Where this vote goes, I’m ready to ensure the community has my support because a lot of work will start right away after this day. 
  Councilmember Weller read from a prepared statement:  Many comments were made before I came here today.  I walked downtown, the entire stretch from Sanctuary and back on both sides.  So along this way, and I did try it out, was one of the pavers sitting in the tree well, right around Etsi Bravo.  When this project began, we knew we needed to do the infrastructure.  I will continue going downtown whether this bid is accepted.  I will continue going with my family to Mela, Scusi, and Black Cypress, having meetings at Pups and Cups and all the different places.  Whether this goes forward or not will not affect me.  What does affect things is something my mom told me: no one will be fully happy.  Everyone will face a difficult change as we try to work together for a better downtown and future for the City of Pullman, which we all want. 
  I’ve advocated for the trees in the original plan.  We also paused the plan for a year to help businesses prepare for the project, which we did. I’ve met on the phone, in Zoom meetings, and in-person meetings day and night with individuals and groups for years, ranging in topics from saving the downtown trees, saving downtown businesses, biking advocacy, Pine Street Plaza concerns, handicap parking,  grant ideas, and others.  I have addressed your concerns and questions to city staff,   the Mayor, and Welch Comer.  These ideas, research, and suggestions have resulted in significant improvements in the project and helped to broaden my knowledge while also providing unique solutions the City can utilize in this and future projects.  Unfortunately, we have also found several challenges that we must address, ranging from communication to transparency and process, and the list can go on.  There is a lot of fear and uncertainty made more problematic by the lack of a solid plan, which I asked about today, which will be finalized if or when we decide to award the bid.
  Throughout this process, we have had retirements of department heads and staff, along with new council members and the Mayor, which can make this even more challenging.  We all have the same goal: a better downtown.  I can’t predict the future.  But I know the sidewalks need to be fixed.  We need handicapped parking and replace the infrastructure so we don’t face an emergency.  But not without funds.  I know we have the money now.  I know we have a good, not perfect, plan.
  Furthermore, I know if we choose to push this project back again, we will face increasing construction costs and will need to find additional money by pausing or canceling other vital city projects.  This is not the only project we have in the City, and we might be able to apply and receive additional funding through other competitive grants.  We could redesign and try to fit every suggestion from every group into the plan, but it is not guaranteed that the state will approve or that the redesign will be back in time for the construction deadline.  As a public servant, I must consider the entire City and be fiscally responsible.  I have talked with many of you, read, and did the research, and I am making the most informed decision possible.  Although it is not what some of you may want to hear, I have concluded that I must accept the bid and move forward with this plan.  It is also important to integrate the change order suggestions discussed in these various groups, including the possibility of trenchless technology, different tree types, and other ideas.  I'm not expecting it to be popular.  I have met with all sides of the issue and put in a lot of my time to be responsive and find answers to different groups' and individuals' questions.  I hope you respect my choice as being in the best interest of the entire City and know that I will continue to be involved as we face this together.
  Mayor Benjamin called for a vote on whether or not to add additive 6 alternate C (reinstall original pavers) to the original motion as discussed by the Council.
  Final Vote:
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Trymaine Gaither
Nay: Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
  Mayor Benjamin called for a vote to add bid additive 6, Schedule A (Pine Street Utilities Schedule A),  bid additive 6 Schedule B (Pine Street Utilities Schedule B), and bid added at 6 alternate C (Pine Steet Plaza Reinstalled Paver Surfacing) as discussed by the Council.
   Final Vote:
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Trymaine Gaither
Nay: Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
  RESOLUTION NO. R-08-24 - A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING THE BID OF APOLLO, INC. FOR THE PULLMAN DOWNTOWN IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT AND AUTHORIZING EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THE CONTRACT FOR SAID PROJECT. 
  Including bid additive 6, Schedule A (Pine Street Utilities Schedule A),  bid additive 6 Schedule B (Pine Street Utilities Schedule B), and bid added at 6 alternate C (Pine Steet Plaza Reinstalled Paver Surfacing)
  Final Vote:
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Trymaine Gaither
Nay: Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
  D. Adjourn
  A motion to adjourn the Special Meeting of Pullman City Council.
  Motion by Ann Parks, second by Nathan Weller.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
  The meeting adjourned at 1:40 p.m.
        ______________________________
City Clerk Dee Stiles- Elliott
 