Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes December 13, 2022
Generated by Kris Newberry
A video recording of this meeting can be found on the Ferndale School Board’s Swagit page.
1. CONVENE
1.01 Call to Order
Dr. Erickson called to order at 6:27 p.m.
Present from the Board were Dr. Kevin Erickson, Melinda Cool, Peggy Uppiano, Steve Childs,
and Kwabena Ledbetter.
Present from the executive team were Superintendent Dr. Kristi Dominguez, Assistant
Superintendent for Business and Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive Directors of
Teaching & Learning Kellie Larrabee and Dr. Faye Britt, Executive Director of Special
Education Trina Hall, and Executive Director of Communications Celina Rodriguez.
1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
1.03 Recite Land Acknowledgment
Mr. Ledbetter recited the land acknowledgment
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
2.01 Adopt Agenda
Dr. Erickson motioned to move agenda item 5.02 to January meeting when the new District 3
Director is seated.
Dr. Erickson proposed to move agenda item 5.03 (Review Land Acknowledgement) to a future
study session meeting when we have a full board and we can gather more information on the
subject. Also move agenda item 10.02 (Approve minutes of last meeting) off Consent Agenda to
discuss separately. Motion passes unanimously.
Ms. Uppiano requested to have more information regarding the history of the Land
Acknowledgement. Kevin requested submitting all questions to Dr. Dominguez or himself.
Ms. Uppiano motioned to remove agenda item 10.02 (Approval of the minutes) from the agenda
so that some modifications can be made. Motion passes unanimously.

3. PUBLIC COMMENT [GC-3.3]
3.01 Receive Public Comment
Alison Moon – Spoke regarding public comment at school board meetings.
Dam Pham – Spoke on free speech and offered his own definition of ‘harm to children’.
Shira Nahari – Spoke on rehiring and reinstatement of employees.
Robert Bystrom – Shared his thoughts.
Cynthia Sue – Member of VFW and American Legion. Spoke about restricting public comment.
Tami Alejandra – Spoke to the district’s motto of belonging.
Paul Rosser – Spoke about tyranny. He displayed several reference books.
A brief recess was called by Dr. Erickson due to a perceive threat from a member of the
audience.
Jeanne Rosser – Commented on the number 13.
Andrew Gustafson - Commented on revisions to public comment policy 1400.
4. SUPERINTENDENT ANNOUNCEMENTS AND REPORT
4.01 Announcements and Report
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Dr. Dominguez visited Vista Middle school with Dr. Erickson and Ms. Cool.
Board of director’s position closes on Jan 6th
County superintendents toured FHS
Farewell to Old Main Event December 12th.
Bond updates
Entry Plan update: Continue to sort through data, identifying common themes and will
be presenting to the Board and will host an event to present her findings. We will be
using all the information to write the new district strategic plan.
Bricks from Old Main will be available and free. The design team is looking at ways of
saving and moving the front entry way of old main.
Dashboard update: Contract is almost finished, and data will start to be added then.
Website update: Working on a system to update website and will be adding an
organizational chart.

5. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
5.01 Revisions to Policy 1400 - Meeting Conduct, Order of Business and Quorum
Discussion of revisions to policy. There was discussion of the voting process that occurred, and
Dr. Erickson stated that we follow Robert’s Rules of Order and that a vote to abstain counts
toward quorum but not towards the vote, hence one vote for and three abstentions passes the
motion. We have scheduled for our January meeting, legal counsel to understand definition of
some of the words in the policy and 1st Amendment rights. Dr. Erickson open it up for
comments. Mr. Childs reports that his intention with his vote to abstain was to postpone the vote

and to have more discussion but inadvertently passed the language change. He felt that the
original language already covers that intent. Ms. Uppiano in her own personal research found
conflicting sources on Robert’s Rules of Order and the definition of ‘quorum’ and what
constitutes a vote. Ms. Uppiano also inquired about how the school district was formed, whether
it is a corporation or was created through articles of incorporation. An audience member
informed Ms. Uppiano that the Secretary of State office holds that information. Ms. Uppiano
further inquired about how differences of opinion between the board and administration can be
handled. She was unclear as to the nature of the contract with current legal counsel. Ms.
Uppiano asked about retaining outside counsel. Dr. Dominguez stated that legal counsel works
on behalf of the Board solely. And the interpretation of Robert’s Rules of Order comes directly
from the training the board received. By receiving identical training, it creates a standard way to
calibrate the application of the rules.
Ms. Cool remarked about the Board’s current policy regarding abstentions and requiring a
second on a motion.
Dr. Erickson motion to postpone action on this policy until we seek legal counsel. Motion
passed.
For full transcript, click here and select “Transcript” on the right side of your screen.
5.02 Reorganization of the School Board – move item to January 31, 2023 meeting.
5.03 Review Land Acknowledgement – moved to a future Study Session.
6. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
6.01 Receive Quarterly Report from Bond Oversight Committee
Riley reported that the committee has met twice since last quarter. Awaiting an updated bid on
the HVAC system for Vista. The auxiliary gym can be opened at the same time as the academic
building. Moving in over winter break. They want to make sure the building is turned over with
quality work and rushing it. Approximately 65% of budget spent. Discussion on the preforming
arts center and how to bring it up to current standards. Because of the seismic retrofitting needed
to be done on the building, the other upgrades could not be done within the original budget.
There is a contingency fund that may be able to cover the original upgrades. All the secure
vestibules have been completed in all schools.
Question asked about timeline for the committee’s work. Riley thought approximately 15
months. Ms. Cool asked about the need to have a BOC for every bond. Generally, it was thought
of as a valuable part of the process.
6.02 Revisions to Operational Expectations Policy 6 (OE-6) Financial Administration
Dr. Erickson moves to retain OE 6 as is with no changes. Motion passes unanimously.
6.03 Receive Monitoring Report for Operational Expectations Policy 8 (OE-8) Communications
to the Board

Dr. Dominguez would like feedback on what are the best communication methods and timing
that work for the board.
6.04 Adopt Revised language for Operational Expectations Policy 12 (OE-12) Safety
Dr. Erickson opened for discussion.
Motion by Ms. Cool to remove #1 sections A-E and move it to Results Policy 4 (R-4)
Character/Social and Emotional Learning as presented as part of the minutes. Motion carried
unanimously.
7. FOCUS ON STUDENTS
7.01 Revisions to Policy 2.1 (R-2.1) English/Language Arts
Dr. Erickson read the two recommendations that were presented by the Executive Team.
Ms. Cool motions change indicator language on Results Policy 2.1 to “We will increase the
number of students meeting or exceeding standard on grade level expectations.” Motion carries
unanimously.
7.02 Review and Adopt the Monitoring Report for Operational Expectations Policy 10 (OE-10)
Instructional Program
Discussion of what best practices and research are and how do we decide what that is. Ms.
Larrabee described the process of how materials are screened and identified. The district uses
Edtech a nationally recognized agency.
Mr. Childs asked Ms. Larrabee to speak on Policy creation. Ms. Larrabee stated that although
this one occurred prior to the current team being in place, it most likely came from WSSDA
Model Policies which is in-line with State requirements. All policies are updated periodically.
Dr. Erickson motion to adopt monitoring report for OE-10 as compliant with no necessary
recommendations. Vote 3-1. Motion carries.
8. SHARING [GC-7.E.]
8.01 Student Board Members
Mr. Ledbetter shared his thoughts about the Public Comment policy discussion. The wording
seems so broad and difficult to enforce. He remarked the best way to not harm children is to
support them. He has a lot of friends who not just based on their orientation, who may be Native
or Black, Hispanic or a part of an ethnic group that isn’t recognized or in a group that just makes
them feel different. We can’t control other people, but we can affirm students. The Board needs
to work on getting more of the community engaged in public comment.
The farewell to Old Main was great. Pep assembly last Friday celebrated Landon Hatchett who
was selected to play All American.
Reported about spirit week and the various themes each day. He also shared his weather
prediction.
Appreciates the use of taking a recess during Public Comment. It was really scary for him.
Physically he was backing away, preparing to leave.

8.02 Elected Board Members
Both Ms. Uppiano and Ms. Cool both appreciated Mr. Ledbetter’s thoughts on the Public
Comment policy.
8.03 Executive Administration
Appreciated the recess as well because we don’t know everyone’s lived experience. Ms.
Rodriguez addressed Ms. Uppiano who ask about communication to parents.

9. SUPERINTENDENT CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
9.01 All administrative matters delegated to the superintendent that are required to be approved
by the Board will be acted upon by the Board via the consent agenda.
9.02 Authorize Vouchers
9.03 Adopt Resolution No. 19-2022 Approving Application for Title VII Impact Aid Funds
9.04 Accept November 2022 Fund Balance Financial Statements
9.05 Adopt Resolution No. 25-2022 Canceling Warrants
9.06 Approve Hiring of Personnel
9.07 Authorize Personal Services and Supplemental Contracts
9.08 Authorize Leave of Absences
9.09 Accept Resignations and Retirements
10. BOARD CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
10.01 The Board will use a consent agenda as a means to expedite the disposition of routine
matters and dispose of other items of business it chooses not to discuss.
10.02 Approve Minutes
This item was removed for additional edits.
10.03 Review Board of Directors' Budget

Motion to adopt the Superintendent and Board Consent agenda without agenda item 10.02.
Motion carries unanimously.

11. MEETING EVALUATION SURVEY
11.01 School Board Evaluation of the Meeting
Mr. Ledbetter gave the evaluation of the board.
Was the agenda well planned and the board prepared: Needs improvement
Abnormal time spent on adopting the agenda.
Board members did not interrupt each other and contributed to the meeting: Meets standard
Board member did not engage in side-conversations: Meets standard
Board members did not repeat what has already been said: Meets standard
Board members did not “play to the audience” or monopolize the discussion: Needs
improvement
One board member monopolized
Board members supported the President’s efforts to facilitate an orderly meeting: Meets standard
Board members communicated openly and actively in discussion and dialog to avoid surprises:
Meets standard
Board members practiced respectful body language: Meets standard
12. ADJOURN
Meeting adjourned at 9:26 p.m.

________________________________

_______________________________

Dr. Kevin Erickson, President

Dr. Kristi Dominguez, Superintendent

