  Study Session (Wednesday, January 10, 2024)
Generated by Leslee Caul on Monday, January 22, 2024
Members present
Tosha Woods, Mike Rowley, Madeline deMaintenon, Cynthia Coe, Cathie Day
  Meeting called to order at 5:30 PM
  1. Meeting Opening
Procedural: A. Call to Order 5:30 PM
  Procedural: B. Pledge of Allegiance
    Procedural: C. Introduction of Board Members
    2. Consent Agenda
  Minutes: A. Minutes: Meeting of Dec. 13, 2023
Cindy moved to approve, Tosha second.
Aye unanimous
  Action (Consent): B. Classified Roster Action
    3. Administration
  Discussion: A. February Meeting Schedule
  Because Feb 14 is occupied by the permanent superintendent search process, the Board was asked if they would like to move the Feb. 14 study session or cancel it and have a single business meeting in February.
After discussion, it was determined that the Board will be in session conducting interviews in Executive session. 
    Information: B. Mid-Year Updates from Elementary Schools
  Elementary principals Rob Moffat (Valley View), JoAnne Duncan (Ida Nason Aronica), Del Heistand (Lincoln), and Melissa Singletary (Mt. Stuart) provided mid-year updates on their schools. Each shared the Wildly Important Goals (WIG) that their teams have been working towards. 
    Discussion: C. Board Discussion: School visits (purpose and plan)
Mike recommended Wednesdays when Board can see students and PLCs.
  Board members indicated that they would like to regularly visit the following schools:

Cathie -- Choice and Lincoln
Mike - Valley View and ELC
Cindy - MMS and HS
Tosha -- MSE
Madeline -- Lincoln
    Discussion: D. Board Discussion: Board Ends review
After discussion, the Board decided to revisit, revise and/or reimagine Board Ends with the input of stakeholders and permanent superintendent.
    4. Public Input
  Information: A. Public Comment
None
  5. New Business
  Discussion: A. New Business
None
  6. Adjournment
  Procedural: A. Adjournment
Cathie moved to adjourn, Tosha second.
Meeting adjourned at 7:31 PM
 