MINUTES OF THE BUSINESS MEETING OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
SELAH SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 119
DISTRICT OFFICE BOARD ROOM
October 10, 2024
  Members present
Dan Peters, Jamie Morford, Joe Catron, Sarah Michael, and Derek Iverson.  Student representatives Lauren Rice, Addison Flowers, Charlee Miller and Clare Richards were also in attendance.
  1. Welcome
A. Call Meeting to Order, Roll Call & Flag Salute
The meeting was advertised in accordance with law. President Dan Peters called the meeting to order at 7:00 a.m. and led the flag salute.
  2. Appeal Hearing
A. Request for Reconsideration of Library Books
Daylene Ackerman - spoke regarding her understanding of the appeal process and wanted to express that RCW allows the board to have the authority to override, the duty and legal authority to override the process and the policy that reviews these materials. Students can be able to access these materials outside of school. Residents of Selah should be able to decide what to include. The power of government resides in the citizens and taxpayers and they are the sovereign authority within our constitution. The constitution is our contract where the people delegate authority to the government. Any limitations are those set by the government. Why are we seeing the sexual exploitation of people in our culture? She stated that The Naked Communist book had a lot of informative quotes. She read about how the book outlined goals that are becoming prevalent in our society to move to Marxist and Communist ideals. Daylene read excerpts from books titled Waiting for Alaska and Me and Earl and the Dying Girl.
  Daylene reiterated that the text was a part of what was considered. She asked the board to do their duty and remove these books.

Hunter Sissom and Alicia Jacob gave a general overview of the process that was followed that began under Alicia's direction, then was taken over by Hunter upon Alicia's departure. There were 6 books reviewed that were in our libraries. We ordered 11 books for each title for the review and Mrs. Ackerman's concern was forwarded to the team. They read 3 books between February and April, then another 3 from June through August. Each book was discussed on its own during the session. Concerns, considerations and a line voting process. Educators and parents in the community. Retain, Restrict Access or Remove were the considered. Mrs. Ackerman received notification that all books were decided by the committee to retain.

Dan asked why the district policy is that the entire book must be read. Hunter stated that there was some drug use in a book, but by reading the entire book instead of excerpts, there was consequences or morals to the story, rather than acts. There were consequences. Hunter explained the make-up of the Instructional Materials Committee has parent representation and educators. Curriculum adoption, as well as library material considerations are part of this committee's work. The purpose of the committee is to review the policy, so the required policy outlines the steps. The committee has a mix of experienced and new members.

Lauren asked about "Restricted" meant and how that would be done. That would have to look the same for each book, with permission to check out.

Derek asked about the frequency that the books had been checked out. They were all checked out only a handful of times, some not for a few years.

Hunter and Kevin stated that these books were not a part of any teacher's lessons, according to the principal, however, a student may have read it for a book report. There is a possibility that teachers that are no longer here may have used it in the past. Many of the books for reconsideration have been in the library for over 20 years. The popularity of these books, there is a low interest in checkouts.

Alicia stated that one of the books had been used in former curriculum in the past, but we have new curriculum that they aren't used.

Hunter described that all of the books were award winning. In all of the books there were negative consequences to the behavior noted in the books.

Poet X - no students have checked out
Speak - 15 students between 12/20/2011 and 11/28/2022
Smoke - no students have checked out
Looking for Alaska - 55 students checked out 10/25/2005 and 2023
Perfect - 5 students checked out 4/28/2014 to 2/24/2021

Jamie asked about the IMC makeup and development. Hunter explained that it is a 3-year commitment and we have an application process with many staff having turned over last year and new parents to the committee this year. Alicia explained that last year 2 parents (1 with a graduate student) and it is specific to parents of students. We looked at parents of students in different meetings as well as

Me and Earl and the Dying Girl was an excerpt read by Mrs. Ackerman, which isn't a book in our library. Dan stated also that having a librarian in schools might be a good idea to match students with books.

Jamie stated that we are deciding today about the process, but after that? Dan explained that it cannot be reviewed again for another 3 years.

The IMC had a big commitment with this. Alicia explained that it was quite a few hours committed outside of the school day.

Kevin stated that the decision of the IMC can be appealed by written decision to the Superintendent. The board decides whether the process was followed. If the process was not followed, the board can make their own decision. The decision will not be reconsidered for 3 years. This is in Procedure 2021.

Derek would like to see more parental involvement in these committees. We should seek more community involvement in these type of committees. I am surprised there is not a little more division on this type of content. Or are there another materials that can present other type of morals without being salacious.

Lauren was curious to avoid bias based upon parenting styles. She is curious how we would incorporate all parent opinion, not just those with strict styles.

Kevin stated currently in policy, it does speak to the make-up of the IMC including administrators, educational staff members, including state law that parents must be less than 1/2 of the committee.
  That the Board of Directors determined that the Instructional Materials Committee applied the correct criteria and followed the process.
  Motion by Dan Peters.  Motion carried 5/0.
  3. Suggestions/Comments from the Audience
A. District Guidelines for Public Comment
There was not any public comment.
  4. Executive Session, if Needed
There was not a need for Executive Session.
  5. Adjournment
A. Adjourn
There being no further board business, the meeting adjourned at 7:48 a.m.
                                                                                            Signature on file                                        
                                                                                    President                                          
                                                                                          Signature on file                                         
                                                                                    Secretary                                                      
Dated this 24th day of October, 2024.
     