Toledo School District
Board of Directors
June 20, 2024
The regular meeting of the Board of Directors was called to order at 6:31p.m. by Chairman,
Heidi Buswell. Board members in attendance included Heidi Buswell, Brad Dykstra, Jerad
Buswell, Lance Maier and Adam Hutchinson. Mrs. Buswell asked that anyone taping the
meeting identify themselves so that speakers would know they were being taped. The
meeting was convened in person, but was also held virtually.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mr. Huffman.
The Land Acknowledgement was read by Mrs. Buswell.
Board AgendaMr. Dykstra made a motion to approve the June 20, 2024 agenda as presented. Mr. Maier
seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Oath of OfficeMr. Bailey administered the oath of office for the new Junior Student Board Representative,
Naomi Padgett.
Public Hearing- Budget ExtensionThe Board accepted public testimony regarding Resolution 2023-24-16 Budget Extension 202324. Mrs. Buswell noted that all persons wishing to be heard on this matter were required to sign in
at the sign in table. No one signed in.
The public hearing opened at 6:34p.m.
Jenaya Lawrence gave her presentation. There was no public testimony.
The public hearing closed at 6:35p.m.
Public Hearing- Budget AdoptionThe Board accepted public testimony regarding Resolution 2023-24-17 Budget Adoption 202425. Mrs. Buswell noted that all persons wishing to be heard on this matter were required to sign in
at the sign in table. No one signed in.
The public hearing opened at 6:35p.m.
Jenaya Lawrence gave her presentation. There was no public testimony.
The public hearing closed at 6:48p.m.
Comments/Questions from the AudienceThere were no questions or comments from the audience.
Guest SpeakersThere were no guest speakers.
1

Board Community UpdateMrs. Buswell had nothing to report.
Mr. Maier reported that he read an article that indicated Blue Bird busses will be equipped with
more safety features, like seatbelts in 2025.
Mr. Dykstra noted there was a nice letter to editor about kids cleaning up park.
Mr. Buswell noted Babe Ruth was crazy and there were 3 teams this year.
Mr. Hutchinson said TES field day was a success. The MS band concert was great and he spoke
to teachers about posting an Amazon wish list.
Kaycee Horrace was absent. Her report was available on Boarddocs.
Consent AgendaMr. Buswell made a motion to approve the consent agenda.
 Approve Minutes Regular Meeting May 16, 2024.
 Approve Payroll and Vouchers
 Approve Resignation of Ramona Lisa Hazlett- Bus Driver
 Approve Hire of Athena Buchanan- Bus Driver
 Approve Hire of Janet Opsitnick- Sub Bus Driver
 Highly Capable Program Plan
Mr. Dykstra seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Transportation ReportThere was no report.
Finance ReportMrs. Lawrence, Business Manager, reported the following:
 Budget Status Report
 Fund Balance Projection
Communications, Correspondence and IntroductionsThere were no communications or correspondence to review.
Principal ReportsDave Hopf- TES- Each grade went on a field trip this year. The PTO paid for trips. They had a talent
show and RAP assemblies this year. 6 horses picked up students the last day of school. LAP program
will be doing math Mondays.
Sheila Holter- TMS- There was an incentive for the class that grew the most. 6th grade got the
party. There was also a whole school part because each class grew.
Martin Huffman-THS- He reviewed the THS IXL tests. He reviewed the questions he asked of the
seniors.
Brennan Bailey- CPA plan to get testing data for next year.
Superintendent's ReportMr. Bailey provided an update on enrollment. We are at 816.65 FTE with a headcount of 846. We
are budgeted at 810 FTE.
Annual Board Report
-#1820/1820P BOARD SELF-ASSESSMENT
2

At the conclusion of each year, the board shall evaluate its own performance. Mr. Bailey
reported the board completed their self-assessment. It was included in the board packet.
-#1822 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT FOR BOARD MEMBERS
Funds for participation at continuing training and development to enhance effective
boardsmanship will be budgeted for on an annual basis. Mr. Bailey reported funds for
training are included in the budget. He noted the board will need to direct how these
should be used.
-#5001 HIRING OF RETIRED SCHOOL EMPLOYEES
Subject to any applicable bargaining agreements, vacancies filled by retirees shall be annually
reviewed by the board to determine whether the retiree will be rehired for another year of
employment. Mr. Bailey reported no retirees will be filling regular positions.
-#6030 FINANCIAL REPORTS
The board recognizes that responding to Public record requests pursuant to Chapter 42.52,
RCW is one of the district's unique and core essential functions, and that full access to
information concerning the conduct of government of every level must be assured as a
fundamental and necessary precondition to the sound governance of a free society. Therefore,
each month or quarter, the superintendent will submit to the board a Public Records
Transparency Report that includes a list of all public records requests received by the district.
At its discretion and in an effort to achieve the fullest transparency as to the public records
requests it receives and to which it provides responses, the board or superintendent may post
the report on its website. Mr. Bailey reported the district received no public records
requests this month.
The board agreed they would like to attend the WSSDA conference this year.
Mr. Bailey noted the Listening Session was in board study.
One Tiered Start Times- Mr. Bailey noted we were looking at 8:00 ES, 8:10 HS, and 8:20 MS. It
will be great for kids and families to have a similar start time. It will also benefit those in clubs,
sports, and other activities as they will not miss as much class time due to the late release. He
noted this was in misc. action for approval.
Mr. Bailey noted the Board Self Evaluation was in board study.
Board StudyMr. Dykstra made a motion to table the Board Self Evaluation review to July. Mr. Hutchinson
seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Mr. Hutchinson made a motion to table the listening session review to July. Mr. Buswell seconded
the motion. Motion passed.
Mr. Bailey noted we were going to make the complaint process more accessible on our website.
First ReadingThere were no first readings for review.
Non-Substantial or Legal Reference Updates Only3

There were no non-substantial or legal reference updated for review.
Action and Information ItemsThe Board reviewed the following resolutions, contracts and agreements.
ResolutionsMr. Buswell made a motion to approve Resolution 2023-24-15 Cancel General Fund Warrant
#45115529 Riverview Auto for $285.37- Lost/Reissue. Mr. Maier seconded the motion. Motion
passed with a roll call vote 5-0
Mr. Buswell made a motion to approve Resolution 2024-25-01 - WIAA Membership. Mr. Dykstra
seconded the motion. Motion passed with a roll call vote 5-0
Mr. Maier mad a motion to approve Resolution 2023-24-16 - 2023-24 Budget Extension. Mr.
Hutchinson seconded the motion. Motion passed with a roll call vote5-0
Mr. Dykstra made a motion to approve Resolution 2023-24-17 - 2024-25 Budget Adoption. Mr.
Maier seconded the motion. Motion passed with a roll call vote 5-0
Contracts/Agreements- New
There were no new contracts or agreements to review.
MiscellaneousMr. Buswell made a motion to approve the following start times beginning 2024-25. Mr.
Hutchinson seconded the motion. Motion passed.
 Toledo Elementary 8:00a.m.
 Toledo High School 8:10a.m.
 Toledo Middle School 8:20a.m.
Policies to be Adopted by School BoardThere were no policies to be adopted.
AdjournmentMr. Dykstra moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Buswell seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Meeting adjourned at 7:23p.m.
Approved this 18th day of July, 2024.
_______________________
Brennan Bailey
Secretary to the Board
_______________________
Heidi Buswell
Chairman

_______________________
Brad Dykstra
Vice-Chairman

4

