Toledo School District
Board of Directors
April 18, 2024
The regular meeting of the Board of Directors was called to order at 6:30p.m. by Vice
Chairman, Brad Dykstra. Board members in attendance included Brad Dykstra, Lance
Maier, Jerad Buswell and Adam Hutchinson. Mrs. Buswell was absent. Mr. Dykstra asked
that anyone taping the meeting identify themselves so that speakers would know they were
being taped. The meeting was convened in person, but was also held virtually.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mr. Ewers.
The Land Acknowledgement was read by Brad Dykstra.
Board AgendaMr. Maier made a motion to approve the April 18, 2024 agenda as presented. Mr. Buswell
seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Good News in SchoolThe board did a building walk through to see student work all focused on creativity. Students in
Mrs. Landauer's classes presented their dragon egg creative writing and illustration projects. Miss
Holter showed them Mrs. Bundy's peer partner art class's inspirational quote project. Students
gave them a tour of the Environmental Learning Center, explaining the aquaponics project - how it
was built, how it works, and where they send the harvested produce. Students presented their ELA
culminating projects for the last novel study and lastly, they visited Mrs. Marick's classroom art
gallery.
Comments/Questions from the AudienceThere were no comments or questions.
Guest SpeakersMr. Ewers asked board permission to dedicate a plaque in memory of Zaine Wallace on the new
playground at TES. Amy Archer noted the PTO would pay for the plaque.
Mr. Buswell made a motion to approve the dedication. Mr. Hutchinson seconded the motion.
Motion passed.
Kasen and Billie, FFA students, reviewed the FFA trip.
Mr. Buswell made a motion to approve FFA Trip. Mr. Maier seconded the motion. Motion
passed.
Board Community UpdateMrs. Buswell was absent.
Mr. Maier had nothing to report.
Mr. Dykstra noted he has heard a lot of levy buzz in the community.
Mr. Buswell had nothing to report.
1

Mr. Hutchinson had nothing to report.
Quyn Norberg, Senior Board Representative, was absent. The following report was available in
Boarddocs.
Toledo High School:
Mass Band will be hosted at THS this year on May 14th. This will be the first time in a while that
we have done this. The event will bring over 200 high school musicians to our school for a day of
practice and performance.
Quyn Norberg received $500 from DAR, Daughters of the American Revolution, for her
outstanding spontaneous essay. Quyn read the essay during Monday Assembly this week.
IXL testing will be given on Tuesday and Wednesday the 23rd and 24th for 9th -11th graders.
This will be the final of three testing sessions this year.
Seniors will be visiting a college and career fair in Castle Rock on Tuesday the 23rd. They will be
bringing their resumes with them as requested and some companies will be holding interviews for
summer and career positions. This will be followed by a tour of Centralia College on Wednesday
featuring their CTE offerings and academic opportunities.
Coffee House will have its last performance on Wednesday the 24th and will start up again this
Fall. A special Thanks to Rachel Phillips for bringing her coffee stand to the event.
Syd Smith, a sophomore, is the Cheese Day button contest winner!!!
Toledo Elementary School:
TES had their Student of the month assembly.
Spring Benchmark Testing going on now until next Wednesday
PTO is paying for every grade level to have a field trip in the coming months
 K-train ride
 1st- Zoo
 2nd Children's Museum
 3rd-Mt St. Helens
 4th- Rainiers game
 5th TBD
PTO is also paying for all of 3rd grade swimming lessons at Thorebecks
Martin Huffman is still planning 2nd grade Safari for every Thursday afternoon
TES grounds look better than they ever have thanks to our Maintenance Dept. and Janitorial staff
Kaycee Horrace, Junior Student Representative, reported the following:
Toledo Middle School:
Spring sports continue to go well. Kids are having fun with track.
2

The 6th, 7th, and 8th grade band students will be going to the Massed Band event next week. I
believe it is the first time there has been an event for middle school. This is a great opportunity for
our students to build connections with other schools.
Our knowledge bowl team has done a great job this year. Thursday (the day of the board meeting)
is their last meet. The meet we hosted went very well (thank you to first year advisor Jennifer Ball
for making sure everything was well organized). We were able to have three full teams compete
at that meet, and all three teams placed in their division. Our A team won the meet.
Mrs. Stead organized an Open House for community members to see the Environmental Learning
Center for Thursday (again, the day of the board meeting).
Ms. Fraser is planning the Title I Literacy night for May 9 from 5:30 to 7:00. We will have
activities, door prizes, pizza, and resources for parents. An invitation and RSVP will be going out
to families at the end of April so we can plan for food.
A big thank you goes to our maintenance staff. Ms. Banks and Mr. Christensen do an amazing job
on the day to day upkeep of TMS, and the spring clean-up that the maintenance staff did over
spring break was awesome. We appreciate their work.
Consent AgendaMr. Maier made a motion to approve the consent agenda.
 Approve Minutes Regular Meeting March 18, 2024.
 Approve Payroll and Vouchers
 Approve Resignation of Michael R. Croy- THS Assistant Football Coach
 Approve Agreement 2024-25-01- Newmarket Skills Center & TSD- Education Programs
Mr. Buswell seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Transportation ReportThere was no transportation report.
Finance ReportMrs. Lawrence, Business Manager, reported the following:
 Fund Balance Report
 Budget Status Report
She noted we secured two buses with funds that can only be used on yellow buses. The audit would
be wrapping up the following week. We have begun preparing the budget for next year. ASB has
designed a mascot and will be ordering it with grant funds.
Communications, Correspondence and IntroductionsThere were no communications or correspondence to review.
Superintendent's ReportMr. Bailey provided an update on enrollment. We are at 817.10 FTE with a headcount of 846. We
are budgeted at 810 FTE.
Annual Policy Report3

-#5253/5253P MAINTAINING PROFESSIONAL STAFF/STUDENT BOUNDARIES
This policy and procedure shall be included on the district website and in all employee, student,
and volunteer handbooks. Annually, all administrators and staff will receive copies of the
district’s reporting protocol. Mr. Bailey reported this is part of our annual SafeSchools training
completed in September, 2023.
-#6030 FINANCIAL REPORTS
The board recognizes that responding to Public record requests pursuant to Chapter 42.52,
RCW is one of the district’s unique and core essential functions, and that full access to
information concerning the conduct of government of every level must be assured as a
fundamental and necessary precondition to the sound governance of a free society. Therefore,
each month or quarter, the superintendent will submit to the board a Public Records
Transparency Report that includes a list of all public records requests received by the district. At
its discretion and in an effort to achieve the fullest transparency as to the public records requests
it receives and to which it provides responses, the board or superintendent may post the report
on its website. Mr. Bailey reported there was one public records request this month that was
included in the board packet.
-#6800 OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE OF SCHOOL PROPERTY
Annually, the superintendent will report to the board on the condition of the facilities and the
effectiveness of the asset preservation program. Mr. Bailey reported the ICOS report of facilities
condition was in the board packet.
Strategic Plan- This was deferred to next month.
Board StudyThere was no board study.
First ReadingThere were no first reads for review.
Non-Substantial or Legal Reference Updates OnlyThere were no non-substantial or legal reference for review.
Action and Information ItemsThe Board reviewed the following resolutions, contracts and agreements.
ResolutionsMr. Maier made a motion to approve Resolution 2023-24-06 Cancel General Fund Warrant
#45116427 ESD 113 Unemployment- VOID/Reissue with adjusted amount. Mr. Buswell
seconded the motion. Motion Passed with a 4-0 roll call vote.
Contracts/Agreements- New
There were no new contracts or agreements to review.
MiscellaneousThere was no miscellaneous action.
Policies to be Adopted by School BoardThere were no policies to be adopted.
4

AdjournmentMr. Hutchinson moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Buswell seconded the motion. Motion
passed. Meeting adjourned at 7:11p.m.
Approved this 16th day of May, 2024.
_______________________
Brennan Bailey
Secretary to the Board
_______________________
Heidi Buswell
Chairman

_______________________
Brad Dykstra
Vice-Chairman

5

