Toledo School District
Board of Directors
August 21, 2024
The regular meeting of the Board of Directors was called to order at 6:30p.m. by Chairman,
Heidi Buswell. Board members in attendance included Heidi Buswell, Brad Dykstra, Jerad
Buswell, Lance Maier and Adam Hutchinson. Mrs. Buswell asked that anyone taping the
meeting identify themselves so that speakers would know they were being taped. The
meeting was convened in person, but was also held virtually.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mr. Dykstra.
The Land Acknowledgement was read by Mrs. Buswell.
Board AgendaMr. Maier made a motion to approve the August 21, 2024 agenda as presented. Mr. Dykstra
seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Comments/Questions from the AudienceHossein with Chartwell's thanked the board for 25 years of partnership.
Jeanine Washington- re: food services. She feels lunches here are not adequate for students and
athletes. We need protein drinks in vending machines.
Guest SpeakersThere were no guest speakers.
Board Community UpdateMrs. Buswell had nothing to report.
Mr. Maier reported Toutle has stopped cell phone use for the coming year except during breaks
and lunch. Tennessee town suspended all their field trips because of low test scores. 13 states that
do corporal punishment.
Mr. Dykstra noted the fair was good. There was a Cheese days meeting the night prior. He felt it
might be good for leadership classes to help.
Mr. Buswell had nothing to report.
Mr. Hutchinson had nothing to report.
Kaycee Horrace, Senior Student Board Representative, reported bluegrass festival was really
nice. Band did the food fundraiser for it and it was a great fundraiser.
Naomi Padgett, Junior Student Board Representative, was absent.
Consent AgendaMr. Buswell made a motion to approve the consent agenda.
 Approve Minutes Regular Meeting July 18, 2024
 Approve Payroll and Vouchers
 Approve Resignation of Jonathan Eriksen- TMS Teacher
 Approve Resignation of Adriana Ward- Transportation Office Aide
 Approve Resignation of Heidi Bundy- TMS Para
 Approve Resignation of Breanne Lawrence- Bus Driver
 Approve Hire of Adriana Ward- Transportation Supervisor
 Approve Hire of Heidi Bundy- THS Life Skills Teacher
 Approve Hire of Michael Fischer- Head HS Wrestling Coach
1







Approve Hire of Eric Low- Asst. HS Wrestling Coach
Approve Hire of Shyanne Barratt- Asst. HS Volleyball Coach
Approve Hire of Cherise Spears- Head MS Volleyball Coach
Approve Hire of Eden Jones- Asst. MS Volleyball Coach
Approve Hire of Janet Opsitnick- Bus Driver
Mr. Maier seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Finance ReportMrs. Lawrence, Business Manager, reported the following:
 Budget Status Report
 Fund Balance Projection
She noted we are wrapping up last fiscal year and opening up this coming year. We got Safety Net
for special education, it was $118k. She reported we now have two in-house driver trainers.
Communications, Correspondence and IntroductionsThe board reviewed the following letters that were mailed:
Letter from Lisa Sorrell
Letter from Russell Ford
Superintendent's ReportMr. Bailey noted our enrollment is up around 30 students from the end of last school year.
Board Policy Review
-#6570 PROPERTY AND DATA MANAGEMENT
The board shall review the data management program annually. End of the year, teachers inventory
property items in classroom. Random 10% will be double checked by the business office. Mr. Bailey
reported this has been completed.

-#6801 CAPITAL ASSETS/THEFT-SENSITIVE ASSETS
The board will be provided a report identifying equipment not accounted for in the annual inventory. This
equipment will be removed from the district property records through school board action annually.
Mr. Bailey reported this report has been completed.

-#2151 INTERSCHOLASTIC ACTIVITIES
The superintendent shall annually prepare, approve and present to the board for its consideration a program
of interscholastic activities for the school year. Mr. Bailey reported we will offer a full athletic and
extracurricular programming and will continue to seek new opportunities to engage our students in
school activities.

-#3200 RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Each year, the superintendent shall develop and make available to all students, their parents and staff
handbooks pertaining to student rights, conduct, corrective actions and punishment. Mr. Bailey reported
now that principals are back, they will review the handbook and we will have an updated version of
our current handbook for approval at the September board meeting.

-#3231P PROCEDURE STUDENT RECORDS
Parents and adult students shall be notified annually of their right to inspect and review the records of their
children and their other rights under FERPA. Parents shall be advised through the annual Student Rights
and Responsibilities Handbook that student records shall be released to another school where the students
has enrolled or intends to enroll. Students shall be advised annually that prospective employers may request
to review student transcripts upon signed release of the students. Directory information may be released
publicly without consent upon the condition that parent or adult student is notified annually. Mr. Bailey

2

reported FERPA notifications are made through student handbooks and on our website.

-#3520 STUDENT FEES, FINES, OR CHARGES
The board delegates authority to the superintendent to establish appropriate fees and procedures governing
the collection of fees and to make annual reports to the board regarding fee schedules. Mr. Bailey Reported
fees, fines and charges will not be charged to those students who qualify for the free or reduced priced
lunch program. Student fees, fines and charges will remain at 2023-2024 levels.

-#6030 FINANCIAL REPORTS
The board recognizes that responding to Public record requests pursuant to Chapter 42.52, RCW is
one of the district's unique and core essential functions, and that full access to information
concerning the conduct of government of every level must be assured as a fundamental and
necessary precondition to the sound governance of a free society. Therefore, each month or
quarter, the superintendent will submit to the board a Public Records Transparency Report that
includes a list of all public records requests received by the district. At its discretion and in an
effort to achieve the fullest transparency as to the public records requests it receives and to which it
provides responses, the board or superintendent may post the report on its website. Mr. Bailey
reported we have had one request for records this month. He noted it was under his report.

● Board Planning Calendar: Mr. Bailey reported the board planning calendar for the year will be
presented at the September meeting.
● Board Study: Mr. Bailey noted at the September board meeting we will use board study time to set
goals for the year.
● Portables – Mr. Bailey reported the portables have been painted, have sewer/water, ramps are being
installed, and should be ready to go by the start of school.
● Toledo Community Foundation/Cheese Days donation- Mr. Bailey reported we received a $19k
donation from the Cheese Days Committee. He noted $15k was for ramps for at the TES portables
and $4k for paper. He noted it was under misc. action for approval.
● TES Playground update- Mr. Bailey reported the playground looks great and will be up and
running for school! He thanked the maintenance team for all their hard work!
● Track Grant- Mr. Bailey reported we submitted the final application August 15th. We were ranked
7th out of 56 applications in the first round of review and were invited to move forward and submit a
full application. The tentative date for grant awards is Oct. 15th. He thanked Mandy for her work on
this!
● Transportation – Mr. Bailey reported that Adriana Ward has been hired as the new Director of
Transportation.
● Food Service – The board discussed the bids under miscellaneous action.
● Cell phone policy- Mr. Bailey noted he would bring a draft policy to the September meeting once
the admin team is able to meet and discuss.
Board StudyThere was no board study.
3

First ReadingThere were no first readings for review.
Non-Substantial or Legal Reference Updates OnlyThere were no non-substantial or legal reference updated for review.
Action and Information ItemsThe Board reviewed the following resolutions, contracts and agreements.
ResolutionsMr. Maier made a motion to approve Resolution 2023-24-20- Cancel General Fund
Warrant #45116760 Awards West $16.99- duplicate payment. Mr. Hutchinson seconded the
motion. Motion passed with a roll call vote 5-0
Contracts/Agreements- New
There were no new contracts or agreements to review.
MiscellaneousMr. Hutchinson made a motion to approve acceptance of the $19,000 donation from Toledo
Community Foundation/Cheese Days for ramps at TES and paper. Mr. Buswell seconded the
motion. Mr. Dykstra recused himself from voting as he sits on the board.
Mr. Bailey highlighted the food services requests for proposals. The board discussed the bid
process. Mrs. Buswell suggested Chartwell's submit a revised proposal by 3pm on Friday and Mr.
Bailey have a recommendation to the board by 10am Monday morning. The board will do a
special meeting to make a determination.
Mr. Hutchinson made a motion to table the decision on a food services contractor until Monday,
August 26, 2024 at 6:30pm in the THS Library. Mr. Dykstra seconded the motion. Motion
Passed
Policies to be Adopted by School BoardThere were no policies to be adopted.
AdjournmentMr. Dykstra moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Buswell seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Meeting adjourned at 7:01p.m.
Approved this 19th day of September, 2024.
_______________________
Brennan Bailey
Secretary to the Board
_______________________
Heidi Buswell
Chairman

_______________________
Brad Dykstra
Vice-Chairman

4

