Toledo School District
Board of Directors
February 15, 2024
The regular meeting of the Board of Directors was called to order at 6:30p.m. by Chairman,
Heidi Buswell. Board members in attendance included Heidi Buswell, Brad Dykstra and
Lance Maier. Jerad Buswell and Adam Hutchinson were absent. Mrs. Buswell asked that
anyone taping the meeting identify themselves so that speakers would know they were being
taped. The meeting was convened in person, but was also held virtually.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Jenaya Lawrence.
The Land Acknowledgement was read by Heidi Buswell.
Board AgendaMr. Dykstra made a motion to approve the February 15, 2024 agenda as presented. Mr. Maier
seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Public Hearing- Budget Extension
The Board accepted public testimony regarding Resolution 2023-24-06 Budget Extension. Mrs.
Buswell noted that all persons wishing to be heard on this matter were required to sign in at the
sign in table. No one signed in.
The public hearing opened at 6:32p.m.
Jenaya Lawrence gave a presentation. She noted this was to expend the playground grant funds for
Toledo Elementary School.
There was no public testimony.
The public hearing closed at 6:33p.m.
Good News in SchoolDoris Brady gave an overview of good news at Cowlitz Prairie Academy. She noted 3 students
already graduated and 29 more will graduate in June. They are working on a yearbook again, post
Covid. Olivia, a CPA student, shared that she is working on the yearbook and they had kids bull
riding, wrestling and doing band.
Comments/Questions from the AudienceThere were no comments or questions.
Guest SpeakersToledo Police Chief, Duane Garvais-Lawrence, gave an overview of the School Resource Officer
(SRO) position. He noted the goal was to bring Bill Lynn in as a certified police officer. They
want him to be a presence as a friend and talk to kids, shake hands etc. Chief noted this would be
an evolving position and that the SRO would have extensive training.
Mr. Maier made a motion to direct Mr. Bailey to move forward with the SRO MOU. Mr. Dykstra
seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Two students reviewed the FFA trip. Mr. Dykstra made a motion to approve FFA Field Trip. Mr.
Maier seconded the motion. Motion passed.
1

Board Community UpdateMrs. Buswell had nothing to report.
Mr. Maier reported our boys’ basketball team played in the semi-finals the night before against
Adna and lost 63-54. They have two more chances to make it to regionals. He noted the girls’
basketball team was still alive in districts after beating Raymond-South Bend that week. They too
have two chances to make it to regionals. He reported our wrestlers were escorted out to the
freeway that day on their way to state. We had athletes 6 competing.
Mr. Dykstra reported he had been watching a lot of high school basketball. He noted the boys and
girls were both doing well. He asked Mr. Bailey to check into YouTube for sports. He expressed
concerns with what’s next with the levy.
Mr. Buswell was absent.
Mr. Hutchinson was absent.
Quyn Norberg, Senior Board Representative, was absent. The following report was available in
Boarddocs.
 FFA attended the Regional Jamboree with 14 members at WF West taking home a 1st
place the overall 9 elements of competition.
 FFA also added an employment skills training including resumes and job interviews.
 FFA week is coming up with a regional basketball tourney on the 21st in Winlock.
 FFA is planning a trip to the SAGE Center in Boardman, OR to view the interactive
agriculture displays.
 Choir and Drama visited put on a Second Grade Safari show with a tribute to Queen which
included a mock sword fight and bicycle race.
 Miss Martin's nutrition class visited the Second Grade this afternoon introducing and
reviewing food groups, a tasting session followed by a Q & A.
 Leadership class has been hosting the Monday Assemblies with information on our
schedules, games such as Family Feud, student songs and recently an interactive film on
Black History.
 Spanish Class is in the midst of oral descriptive presentations. Individuals are describing
themselves and amigos with a power point and narrative.
 Mr. Fallon's all female weight class consists of 26 students that are thoroughly enjoying
their time and participation and effort is way up.
 Art student Kasey Jorgenson is illustrating a book for a local author Anine Grumbles. The
book is titled Yes, Mrs. Holstein, There Are Purple Peppers! A story about a student
proving to a teacher that there are purple peppers. A reminder that all of us can learn
something new every day.
Kaycee Horrace, Junior Student Representative, reported the following:
 The boys’ basketball team ended their season 8-2, which was awesome.
 We are doing Fun Fridays every three weeks for students who have been on time to every
class and had appropriate behavior. We did popcorn, bingo and gym time for the first Fun
Friday and ice cream, board games and gym time for the second Fun Friday.
 The 6th graders earned ice cream treats for their awesome growth on the IXL assessment.
Every 6th grader made growth in one or both areas! They were really happy with their
accomplishments and appreciated the treat.
2

Consent AgendaMr. Dykstra made a motion to approve the consent agenda.
 Approve Minutes Regular Meeting January 18, 2024.
 Approve Payroll and Vouchers
 Approve Resignation of Sarita Loya - TMS Para/Office Assistant
 Approve Resignation of Ron Gaul- Assistant Coach- THS Football
 Approve Resignation of William Blankinship- Bus Driver
 Approve Hire of Athena Buchanan- Sub Bus Driver
 Approve Hire of Horst Malunat- Head Coach- THS Girls Soccer
 Approve Hire of Mike Christensen- Head Coach- TMS Track
Mr. Maier seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Transportation ReportMr. Bailey reported was Adriana out of town.
Finance ReportMrs. Lawrence, Business Manager, reported the following:
 Fund Balance Report
 Budget Status Report
She noted the auditors would be on-site the following week for about four weeks.
Communications, Correspondence and IntroductionsThere were no communications or correspondence to review.
Superintendent's ReportMr. Bailey provided an update on enrollment. We are at 822.13 FTE with a headcount of 849. We
are budgeted at 810 FTE.
Annual Policy Report#1830 PARTICIPATION IN SCHOOL BOARDS' ASSOCIATION
*As required by law, the board members are members of the Washington State School Directors'
Association. Rate of membership is established at WSSDA annual meeting. Mr. Bailey reported the
2024 WSSDA annual dues billing has been received by the District and was paid.
#2220 SCHOOL CALENDAR
*The board shall adopt a school calendar or calendars by June 1 of each year. Mr. Bailey reported
the proposed school calendars for 2024-25 and 2025-26 were under miscellaneous action for
consideration.
#6030 FINANCIAL REPORTS
* The board recognizes that responding to Public record requests pursuant to Chapter 42.52, RCW is
one of the district's unique and core essential functions, and that full access to information concerning
the conduct of government of every level must be assured as a fundamental and necessary
precondition to the sound governance of a free society. Therefore, each month or quarter, the
superintendent will submit to the board a Public Records Transparency Report that includes a list of
all public records requests received by the district. At its discretion and in an effort to achieve the
fullest transparency as to the public records requests it receives and to which it provides responses,
the board or superintendent may post the report on its website. Mr. Bailey reported we had two
public records requests and the spreadsheet was under his report.
3

Levy- There were discussion regarding the next steps, if any, for a levy. Mr. Bailey noted there was a
resolution under action for the board to consider.
March Board Meeting- Mr. Bailey noted he would be at the superintendent’s training during the
time of the regular scheduled board meeting and asked the board if they wanted to reschedule. He
noted this was in miscellaneous action for consideration.
Revised 2023-24 District Calendar- Mr. Bailey reported we had four snow/weather related days we
missed school. We will use all of our scheduled snow make up days and add a day at the end of the
school year. With board approval, the last day of school will be June 14th. He noted this was in
miscellaneous action for consideration.
Draft Calendars- Mr. Bailey noted the board had requested two years of district calendars to review.
One option would have the first day of school before Labor Day and the second option would start
after Labor Day. He recommended starting after Labor Day due to Juneteenth. He noted this was in
miscellaneous action for consideration.
Board StudyThere was no board study.
First Reading 1611 Conflicts of Interest (Districts with fewer than 2,000 students)
 2230 Transition to Kindergarten Program (NEW)
 3207/3207P Prohibition of Harassment, Intimidation, and Bullying of Students
 6220/6220P Bid or Request for Proposal Requirements
 6605/6605P Student Safety Walking, Biking, and Riding Buses
Non-Substantial or Legal Reference Updates OnlyThere were no non-substantial or legal reference for review.
Action and Information ItemsThe Board reviewed the following resolutions, contracts and agreements.
ResolutionsMr. Maier mad a motion to approve Resolution 2023-24-06 Budget Extension- Capital Projects.
Mr. Dykstra seconded the motion. Motion Passed with a 3-0 roll call vote.
Mr. Dykstra made a motion to approve Resolution 2023-24-07 Replacement EPO Levy. Mr.
Maier seconded the motion. Motion passed with a 3-0 roll call vote. Mrs. Buswell noted for the
record, Mr. Buswell was in favor of the resolution and Mr. Hutchinson was ok with amount, but
wanted to run the levy in August.
Contracts/Agreements- New
There were no new contracts or agreements to review.
MiscellaneousMr. Dykstra made a motion to approve the Revised 2023-24 District Calendar. Mr. Maier
seconded the motion. Motion passed.
4

Mr. Dykstra mad a motion to accept the PTO donation of $30,000 toward the TES playground
project. Mr. Maier seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Mr. Dykstra made a motion to approve the Surplus List. Mr. Maier seconded the motion. Motion
passed.
Mr. Maier made a motion to change the March Board Meeting date to Tuesday, March 19th at
6:30p.m. Mr. Dykstra seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Mr. Maier made a motion to approve the 2024-25 District Calendar to start before Labor Day. Mr.
Dykstra seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Mr. Maier made a motion to approve the 2025-26 District Calendar to start before Labor Day. Mr.
Dykstra seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Special Meeting- Levy- no action needed.
Policies to be Adopted by School BoardMr. Maier made a motion to approve the policies as presented.
 6550 Capitalization Threshold for Leases and Subscription-Based Information Technology
Arrangements (SBITAs)- NEW
 1400/1400P Meeting Conduct, Order of Business and Quorum
Mr. Dykstra seconded the motion. Motion Passed.
AdjournmentMr. Dykstra moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Maier seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Meeting adjourned at 7:51p.m.
Approved this 18th day of March, 2024.
_______________________
Brennan Bailey
Secretary to the Board
_______________________
Heidi Buswell
Chairman

_______________________
Brad Dykstra
Vice-Chairman

5

