Toledo School District
Board of Directors
July 18, 2024
The regular meeting of the Board of Directors was called to order at 6:35p.m. by Chairman, Heidi
Buswell. Board members in attendance included Heidi Buswell, Brad Dykstra, Lance Maier and
Adam Hutchinson. Jerad Buswell was absent. Mrs. Buswell asked that anyone taping the meeting
identify themselves so that speakers would know they were being taped. The meeting was convened
in person, but was also held virtually.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mr. Bailey.
The Land Acknowledgement was read by Mrs. Buswell.
Board AgendaMr. Dykstra made a motion to approve the July 18, 2024 agenda as presented. Mr. Hutchinson seconded
the motion. Motion passed.
Comments/Questions from the AudienceThere were no comments or questions.
Guest SpeakersThere were no guest speakers.
Board Community UpdateMr. Buswell was absent.
Mr. Dykstra noted the Cheese Days car show was great and they were in need of volunteers for next year.
Mrs. Buswell had nothing to report.
Mr. Maier had nothing to report.
Mr. Hutchinson noted there were not enough boys for U14 soccer. He reiterated that staff should feel
comfortable expressing concerns at the board meetings.
Naomi Padgett, Junior Board Representative, was absent.
Kaycee Horrace, Senior Board Representative, noted a couple of student did a fundraiser and she
appreciated the time they to do it.
Consent AgendaMr. Maier made a motion to approve the consent agenda.
 Approve Minutes Special Meeting- Supt. Eval June 20, 2024
 Approve Minutes Regular Meeting June 20, 2024
 Approve Payroll and Vouchers
 Approve Resignation of Sarah Madill- TMS Head VB Coach
 Approve Resignation of Gracie Madill- TMS Asst. VB Coach
 Approve Resignation of Jerme Miner- THS Para
 Approve Hire of Jerme Miner- Bus Driver
Mr. Dykstra seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Maintenance Report-

1

Mike Ross, Director of Maintenance and Grounds, reported the following:
Toledo High School
Full HVAC filter change
Prepped for graduation
Repaired practice field water valve assembly
Lots of mowing and weed-eating
Cleaned up trash in the front ditch bordering the road
Prepped for Cheese Days
Gym floor logo and floor refinish complete
Toledo Middle School
Full HVAC filter change
Prepped for Middle School graduation
Lots of mowing and weed-eating, Bill edged the front curb lines and it looks great
Prepped for Cheese Days and hillside cleaned up and 10 trees planted on the hillside
Gym floor logo and refinish completed, and lower walls painted
Toledo Elementary School
Full HVAC filter change
Lots of mowing and weed-eating, Bill edged the front end and Red School House curb lines
Old Playground Demolition and backfill will be completed this week. New playground installation is
scheduled to begin the week of the 22nd
Water and sewer hookups for the portables are scheduled for this week pending permitting
Original playground equipment that we did not demo was repainted
Softball Complex
Mowing, weed-eating and trash clean-up
Other
Replaced all paper towel and toilet paper dispensers district-wide as the company we were going through
went
out of business and there were no compatible paper products available for the existing dispensers
Food Services ReportHossein and Drew were present. He noted they have been listening to feedback and working on
improvements. He highlighted some of the changes they made based on the feedback from the last board
meeting. Heidi reiterated the board’s philosophy to not keep a high fund balance. He will schedule time to
review equipment replacement schedule. They noted they have one open position in Toledo.
Finance ReportMrs. Lawrence, Business Manager, reported the following:
 Budget Status Report
 Fund Balance Projection
She noted we hired two new bus drivers and we’ll have two in hour driver trainers for the upcoming year. She
reported that her and Rusty had started inventory.
Communications, Correspondence and IntroductionsThere were not correspondence.
Superintendent's ReportAnnual Policy Report-

-#6030 FINANCIAL REPORTS
The board recognizes that responding to Public record requests pursuant to Chapter 42.56, RCW is
2

one of the district's unique and core essential functions, and that full access to information
concerning the conduct of government of every level must be assured as a fundamental and
necessary precondition to the sound governance of a free society. Therefore, each month or
quarter, the superintendent will submit to the board a Public Records Transparency Report that
includes a list of all public records requests received by the district. At its discretion and in an
effort to achieve the fullest transparency as to the public records requests it receives and to which
it provides responses, the board or superintendent may post the report on its website. Mr. Bailey
reported we had 2 public records requests this month.
-#6570 PROPERTY AND DATA MANAGEMENT
The board shall review the data management program annually. End of the year, teachers
inventory property items in classroom. Random 10% will be double checked by the business
office. Mr. Bailey reported Rusty has begun a complete review and update of our data
management.
-#6801 CAPITAL ASSETS/THEFT-SENSITIVE ASSETS
The board will be provided a report identifying equipment not accounted for in the annual
inventory. This equipment will be removed from the district property records through school
board action annually. Mr. Bailey reported Rusty has begun a complete review and update of
our capital assets and theft-sensitive assets.
Hiring- Mr. Bailey reported we would be interviewing four candidates for our Director of
Transportation position the following week.
Portables- Mr. Bailey reported DJ’s Plumbing has been out to our elementary school that week
working on hooking up water and sewer.
Work Year Extension- Mr. Bailey requested to buy back vacation days he was unable use.
Resolutions 2023-24-18 & 2023-24-19 Final Acceptance of Construction- Mr. Bailey noted these
were some of the final steps in closing out the construction project.
Food Services RFP- Mr. Bailey reported they would be reviewing the RFP the following week.
Mrs. Buswell suggested having a student representative participate.
Board Study Board Self Evaluation- The board noted nothing was surprising and nothing jumped out. They felt that
they were holding steady.


Listening Session- The board discussed the feedback. They noted that food service was a big area of
concern and they have addressed it. Mr. Hutchinson noted another big item was cell phones in
classrooms. Kaycee noted a few teachers do not allow kids to access at all and some are very relaxed
about it. She felt an overall total ban on cell phones was not a good idea, but should have boundaries
expectations and consistency. Mrs. Buswell asked Mr. Bailey to bring a draft cell phone policy back to
the board in August that addresses ear buds included.

First ReadingThere were no first reads for review.
Non-Substantial or Legal Reference Updates OnlyThere were no non-substantial or legal reference for review.

3

Action and Information ItemsThe Board reviewed the following resolutions, contracts and agreements.
ResolutionsMr. Dykstra made a motion to approve Resolution 2023-24-18 Final Acceptance of Construction Mr.
Hutchinson seconded the motion. Motion Passed with a 4-0 roll call vote.
Mr. Maier made a motion to approve Resolution 2023-24-19 Building Commission Report. Mr.
Hutchinson seconded the motion. Motion Passed with a 4-0 roll call vote.
MiscellaneousMr. Hutchinson made a motion to approve Mr. Bailey’s Work Year Extension. Mr. Dykstra seconded the
motion. Motion passed.
Contracts/Agreements- New
There were no new contracts or agreements to review.
Policies to be Adopted by School BoardThere were not policies to be adopted by the school board.
AdjournmentMr. Hutchinson moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Dykstra seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Meeting adjourned at 7:22p.m.
Approved this 15th day of August, 2024.
_______________________
Brennan Bailey
Secretary to the Board
_______________________
Heidi Buswell
Chairman

_______________________
Brad Dykstra
Vice-Chairman

4

