YAKIMA SCHOOL DISTRICT #7
Business Board Meeting
Monday, April 09, 2024; 7:00pm
In-person meeting, live-streamed & recorded
    Members present
Norm Walker, Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, and Raymond Navarro, Jr. and Ryan Beckett were present.
  A. CALL TO ORDER
1. President Walker called the meeting to order at 7:00pm. Jorge announced he is offering interpretation services.
  2. Pledge of Allegiance
President Walker led the board in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  3. Yakama Land Acknowledgement
A video of YSD students reciting the Land Acknowledgement was played.
  4. Recognitions
Winter sport student athletes who ranked 8th place or higher at state from both Davis High School and Eisenhower High School were recognized. Students in extra curricular activities were also recognized (orchestra, band/music, jazz & percussion, choir, speech & debate).
  5. Proclamations
The National Assistant Principals Week and Mental Health Week Proclamations were read aloud.
  B. UPDATES
1. Members of the Board Updates
Director Rice announced the proposal window is now closed and WSSDA will be sifting through them in the upcoming weeks. She shared she took part in pilot for a WSSDA training on disparities in education, and she encourages board members to attend.
  2. Superintendent’s Update
Supt Greene shared that Hoover Elementary was recognized as an Apples For Ed winner for $5,000 grant. He shared that Jake Kuper and himself were guest speakers on a WASA Lunch and Learn earlier today. And he closed by sharing that YSD hosted OSPI Supt Chris Reykdal’s Roundtable of select superintendents from across the state for a budget meeting.
  3. Recall Process - Anthony Murrietta, Assistant Supt of Human Resources
Kim Newell, Director of HR for certified, and Chris Miller, Director of HR for classified, explained the recall process for RIF employees. They walked the board through the entire process and included data for each union. Reference the attached presentation for those details.

Director Beckett asked if the 3-day window for the transfer a law - no, it is in the bargaining agreements. It was initially 10 days, but we modified it to go at a shorter window so we can get to the RIF'd employee quicker.

Director Rice asked if it is effective in Sept when they are transferred - yes, the start of the new work year.
  4. Calendar Updates and Future Agenda Topics
Kirsten Fitterer shared some important YSD events the board is invited to attend.
  5. Comments from the Public on agenda items
There were 18 public commenters on the topic of Reduction in Force.

C. CONSENT AGENDA
1. Approval of Consent Agenda
That the Board of Directors approves the Consent Agenda as submitted.
  Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
  2. Approval of Personnel Actions
  3. Approval of Out-of-Endorsement Assignments
  4. Approval of Ridgeview Community Facility Interlocal Agreement
  5. Approval of YVC and YV Tech Interlocal Agreement
  D. APPROVAL
1. Approval of 0580 Student Voice Policy - Dr. Trevor Greene, Superintendent
Director Beckett commented that he pulled out 17 action items for staff in this policy. He proposes the administrations be more involved prior to acceptance.

That the Board of Directors refers the policy to the superintendent's office for review of the included action items and their impact on building budgets and staff and for our board to schedule a discussion of that review and further discussion of this policy at a May board meeting.
  Motion by Ryan Beckett, second by Raymond Navarro Jr. Motion carried 3/2.
Yea: Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Ryan Beckett
Nay: Graciela Villanueva, Norm Walker
This will move to a later meeting in May.
  2. Approval for edits to 1000 series Policies - Bob Noe, Chief Legal Counsel
That the Board of Directors approves edits to the 1000 series policies as presented.
  Motion by Martha Rice, second by Raymond Navarro Jr. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
3. OP 6112 Rental or Lease of District Real Property - Bob Noe, Chief Legal Counsel
That the Board of Directors approves OP 6112 Rental or Lease of District Real Property as presented.
  Motion by Martha Rice, second by Ryan Beckett. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
  4. Authorization to move forward with publishing potential lease of District surplus property - Bob Noe, Chief Legal Counsel
That the Board of Directors authorize the Superintendent to move forward with advertising for the required 45-day period a potential lease of District surplus property (office space) at 610 N 39th Ave, Yakima, WA 98902.
  Motion by Martha Rice, second by Raymond Navarro Jr. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
  5. Second Opportunity for Public Comment
There were three public commenters.
  E. POLICY GOVERNANCE
1. 1000.2.1 Treatment of Students and their Parents/Guardians - Jake Kuper, Assistant Supt of Finance
First Reading. Survey Monkey will be sent 4/10 and due by 4/15 for the 4/22 meeting.
  2. Approval for 1000.1.0 ENDS Goal #2
That the Board of Directors approves the attached rating reports for 1000.1.0 Global ENDS Report for Goal #2
  Motion by Martha Rice, second by Ryan Beckett. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
  F. EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. Move to Executive Session
There is no need for an executive session today.
  2. Adjourn from Executive Session
  G. ADJOURNMENT
1. Adjournment
President Walker adjourned the meeting at 9:55pm.
                                                                                                                                                                  Norm Walker, President                                             Trevor Greene, Secretary to the Board
 