YAKIMA SCHOOL DISTRICT #7
Board Meeting
Monday, September 3, 2024; 4:00pm
In-person meeting, live-streamed & recorded LINK
Conference Rooms A & B
  Members present
Norm Walker, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro, Jr. and Ryan Beckett were present. Graciela Villanueva was excused.
  A. CALL TO ORDER
1. President Walker called the meeting to order at 4:00pm. Jorge announced he is offering interpretation services.
  2. Pledge of Allegiance
President Walker led the board in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  3. Yakama Land Acknowledgement
A video of YSD students reciting the Land Acknowledgement was played.
  4. Moment of Silence to Honor the Memories of Larry Pryse and Melody Elaine Marshall
President Walker held a moment of silence for both Mr. Pryse and Ms. Marshall.
  5. Recognition
Superintendent Greene recognized the following YSD employees:
Legendary Education Award - This award is presented to an individual who has made a positive impact on their students and in our community.
Sara Cordova - Yakima School District
Bonnie Smith - YV-TECH (Nominated)
Yakima Mile - Sgt. Joe Deccio Award of Excellence
Sara Cordova
2024-25 New YSD Leadership
Jaime Lee, Executive Director of Teaching and Learning
Jewel Brumley, Executive Director of Teaching and Learning
K.C. Mitchell, Executive Director of Special Education
Kevin Brennan, Director of Special Education Services
Erin Thomas, Director of Student Services
Stephanie Casillas, Principal at McClure Elementary
Christopher Whitehurst, Principal at Ridgeview Elementary
Samantha Howell, Principal at M.L. King Jr. Elementary
Craig Smith, Principal at Nob Hill Elementary
Brenda Mallonee, Principal at K-8 Virtual
Andrew Espindola, Principal at Franklin Middle School
Michael Guaglianone, Assistant Principal at Franklin Middle School
Gabe Stotz, Director of CTE at YV-Tech
Nicole Bass, Program Manager of CTE at YV-Tech
Nob Hill Elementary was recognized as a Promising Practices School.
Erin Thomas
Craig Smith
  6. Proclamation
Director Navarro, Jr. read the Attendance Proclamation.
  B. REPORT TO THE BOARD This section can be watched at 25:36 time stamp.
1. Address the Budget - Frances Guerrero, YEA President
President Guerrero presented on the impact of budget cuts, focusing on two employees with payroll issues, the vulnerable students, and the lack of support in special education. She closed by holding the Board responsible for the budget deficit.
  C. UPDATES This section can be watched at 38:06 time stamp.
1. Members of the Board
Director Beckett shared that the School Pulse Survey was interesting in comparison with YSD’s. Director Rice discussed the legislative update and completing the spreadsheet for the priorities. President Walker asked that we keep an eye on The Seattle Times for an article on school financing around the state.
2. Superintendent's Update
Supt Greene added that the legislative priorities is going around the state and referenced as “the big three” incorporating fully funding special education, people transportation and MSOC. He shared the first week of school and open house events were a success district wide.
3. Calendar Updates and Future Agenda Items
Kirsten Fitterer shared important school events and district events which are listed on BoardDocs.
4. Comments from the Public on Agenda Items  
There were no public commenters at this time.
  D. APPROVALS This section can be watched at 46:45 time stamp.
1. Approval to Renew Contract with Next Level Speech for 2024-25 School Year - Stacey Locke, That the Board of Directors grants approval to contract with Next Level Speech for the 2024-25 school year in the amount of $1,200,000.00 to provide Speech Language Pathology services to support students with special needs.
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Ryan Beckett. Motion carried 4/0.
Yea: Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
  2. Second Opportunity for Public Comment  This section can be watched at 49:09 time stamp.
There were four public commenters, all regarding reduction in force in the transportation department.
1. Kris Miller, Bus Driver of the students.
2. Kim Olson, Bus Driver
3. John Puccinelli, Retired Bus Driver
4. Stephanie Olson, Bus Driver
E. POLICY GOVERNANCE  This section can be watched at 1:01:12 time stamp.
1. Policy 1000.4.0 Global Governance-Management Connection
President Walker read the policy. Survey Monkey will be sent the day after the meeting and due back by Sept 10, 2024.
2. Policy 1000.4.1 Unity of Control
President Walker read the policy. Survey Monkey will be sent the day after the meeting and due back by Sept 10, 2024.
  F. EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. Move to Executive Session
There was no need for an executive session.
  G. ADJOURNMENT
1. Adjournment
President Walker adjourned at 5:05pm.
                                                                                                                                                                Norm Walker, President                                             Trevor Greene, Secretary to the Board
 