YAKIMA SCHOOL DISTRICT #7
School Board Budget Work Session
Tuesday, July 9, 2024; 7:00pm
In-person meeting only
Conference Rooms A & B
  Members present
Norm Walker, Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro, Jr. and Ryan Beckett were present.
  A. CALL TO ORDER
1. Call to Order
President Walker called the meeting to order at 7:00pm.
  2. Pledge of Allegiance
This was inadvertently missed.
  3. Yakama Land Acknowledgement
This was inadvertently missed.
  B. BUDGET WORK STUDY SESSION
1. Current Financial Situation - Jake Kuper, Kim Newell and Chris Miller
Overview by Mr. Jake Kuper, Assistant Superintendent of Finance
Recap of the March 25, 2024 school board meeting announcement on Reduction in Force (RIF)
Update from Human Resources on March 25, 2024 RIF/Recall announcement
Financial impact of 2023-2024 RIF/Recall and programmatic reductions
Post RIF/Recall challenges emerged
2023-2024: current status of the following:
Federal Revenue Decline
Levy Equalization
Special Education costs exceeding budget
Enrollment trends and budget forecast implications

2. Overview of Current Budget Challenges and Implications of Ongoing Spending - Supt Greene, Jake Kuper and K.C. Mitchell
Current Finance spending restrictions (will continue and be evaluated monthly)
Special education - Matrix that will assure effective systems supporting students:
Supplemental contracts and supplemental pay
  3. Actions for the Upcoming Fiscal Year - Kirsten Fitterer and Jake Kuper
Recommendations by Mr. Jake Kuper (strategies to mitigate financial constraints and stabilize budgets):
Open enrollment marketing campaign and potential impact
Budget planning for upcoming cycles
Timing/Cadence (recommended for discussion)
  4. Long-Term Financial Planning
5. Strategies for Community Engagement (Time Permitting)
This was not addressed.
6. Final remarks - Supt Greene
Supt Greene closed with reiterating this deadline as board members expressed concern in having enough time to review all budget materials prior to approving the upcoming budget:
Preliminary budget public hearing on July 30 (next Board meeting)
Resolution on apportionment advancement on July 30
Possible program Reduction in Force on Aug 5
Budget adoption on Aug. 20
C. EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. Move to Executive Session
In accordance with RCW 42.30.110, that the Board of Directors, at 7:50p.m., move into executive session for the purpose of current or potential litigation with legal counsel as well as performance of a public employee for approximately 60 minutes.
  Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
  2. Adjourn from Executive Session
Adjourned from Exec Session at 8:54pm.
  H. ADJOURNMENT
1. Adjournment
President Walker adjourned at 8:56pm.
                                                                                                                                                                  Norm Walker, President                                             Trevor Greene, Secretary to the Board
 