YAKIMA SCHOOL DISTRICT #7
Business Board Meeting
Thursday, September 19, 2024; 7:00pm
In-person meeting, live-streamed & recorded (link)
Conference Rooms A & B
  Members present
Norm Walker, Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice were present. Raymond Navarro, Jr. and Ryan Beckett were excused.
  A. CALL TO ORDER
1. Call to Order
President Walker called the meeting to order at 7:00pm. Jorge announced he is offering interpretation services.
  2. Pledge of Allegiance
President Walker led the board in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  3. Yakama Land Acknowledgement
A video of YSD students reciting the Land Acknowledgement was played.
  4. Recognitions This section can be watched at 5:37 time stamp.
Vice President Villanueva announced the award recipients of the Technology Student Association (TSA). The board congratulated them, and their advisor, Mr. Jeff McFadden, offered a few words of congratulations to the students. Director Rice acknowledged the late high school graduates, and the graduates in attendance were congratulated by the board.
  B. REPORT TO THE BOARD This section can be watched at 21:09 time stamp.
1. Ms. Guerrero addressed the impact of budget cuts on the district, expressing concerns about reductions in custodial staffing and paraprofessionals in the libraries. She requested a comprehensive plan that includes custodial task prioritization and coverage for librarians, as well as details on how the administration plans to address these challenges.
  C. UPDATES This section can be watched at 38:29 time stamp.
1. Members of the Board Updates
President Walker announced that the statewide training required for the OSPI virtual training will take place on Tuesday, September 17. Director Rice mentioned that the General Assembly will begin tomorrow and conclude on Saturday in a virtual session. She is hopeful of presenting the results of the proposal prioritization at the next board meeting.
  2. Superintendent's Update
Supt Greene announced the completion and submission of the 2024-25 Minimum Basic Education Requirement Collection. The survey was collaboratively completed by Dr. Lucero, Hector Mendez, Jaime Lee, Jewel Brumley, and Ilda Parra.
  He also highlighted a recent OSPI media release recognizing Erica Aparicio from Yakima School District as one of eight finalists for the 2024 Classified School Employee of the Year.
  He shared information regarding Dual Credit programs. He noted that every high school student taking a college course does so at no cost. In the 2019-20 school year, there were 101 Eisenhower High School students enrolled in 122 classes. For the 2024-25 school year, the number has increased to 1,124 students taking a total of 2,039 classes, resulting in an estimated cost savings of approximately $101,950 in college tuition for families.
  3. Calendar Updates and Future Agenda Items
Kirsten Fitterer shared important school events and district events which are listed on BoardDocs.
  4. Comments from the Public on Agenda Items This section can be watched at 32:13 time stamp.
There were no public commenters at this time.
  D. CONSENT AGENDA This section can be watched at 48:48 time stamp..
1. Approval of Consent Agenda
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 3/0.
Yea: Norm Walker, Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice
  2. Approval of August 2024 Minutes
  3. Notification of Approval of Warrants for August 2024
  4. Approval of Personnel Actions
  5. Approval of Out-of-Endorsement Assignments for the 2024-25 school year
  E. APPROVALS This section can be watched at 49:48 time stamp.
1. Approval of Yakima Association of Paraeducators Agreement - Anthony Murrietta, Asst Supt of Human Resources
That the Board of Directors approves the agreement between Yakima Association of Paraeducators and the Yakima School District.
  Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 3/0.
Yea: Norm Walker, Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice
  2. Resolution 01.24.25 - Tax Anticipation Note 2024 (TAN) - Jake Kuper, Asst Supt of Finance
That the Board of Directors approves Resolution 01.24.25 - Tax Anticipation Note 2024 (TAN)
  Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 3/0.
Yea: Norm Walker, Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice
    5. Second Opportunity for Comments from the Public - All Other This section can be watched at 1:00:49 time stamp.
1. Jenna Bowers - spoke on RIF'd position in transportation.
2. Kim Olson - spoke on RIF'd position in transportation.
3. Steve McKenna - Financial Calamity
4. Rich Evans - travel claim issue (add policy to the travel claim for regarding 20 miles outside of state line)
5. Justin Nicholas - TG's comments towards Frannie were inappropriate.
6. Duff DeWitt - continuing pattern of dismissiveness and disrespect.
7. Debbie Blanchet - social studies curriculum with the CKLA
8. Frances McSharry - spoke on RIF'd position in transportation.
9. Vickie Dwight - finance cuts
  F. EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. Move to Executive Session
In accordance with RCW 42.30.110, that the Board of Directors, at 8:47.m., move into executive session for the purpose of current or potential litigation with legal counsel for approximately 30 minutes.
  In accordance with RCW 42.30.110, that the Board of Directors, at 8:39p.m., move into executive session for the purpose of current or potential litigation with legal counsel for approximately 30 minutes.
  Motion by Graciela Villanueva, second by Martha Rice. Motion carried 3/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Norm Walker
  2. Adjourn from Executive Session
President Walker adjourned Executive Session at 9:18pm.
  G. ADJOURNMENT
1. Adjournment
President Walker adjourned the meeting at 9:22pm.
  H. INFORMATION REPORTS TO THE BOARD
1. Monthly Discipline Report
2. Out-of-State Travel Reports
3. Enrollment Report
  *Meeting was held on Thursday evening due to a mandatory OSPI board training on Tuesday.
                                                                                                                                                                Norm Walker, President                                             Trevor Greene, Secretary to the Board