104 N. FOURTH AVENUE
YAKIMA, WASHINGTON 98902-2636
(509) 573-7000
Website: www.YSD7.org

ACTION ITEM
DATE:

August 20, 2024

TO:

Board of Directors

FROM: Dr. Trevor Greene, Superintendent
RE:

Approval of July 2024 Board Meeting Minutes

Requested Action: That the Board of Directors approves the meeting minutes for the
following Board meetings and Quorums in the month of July.
• July 9th – Special Board Meeting – Budget Works Study Session
• July 30th – July Business Board Meeting
YSD Strategic Plan Alignment: The Board meetings align with all of the strategic
goals throughout the year.
Fiscal Impact: Not applicable.
Background Information: The minutes from the prior month are presented at each
board meeting for approval.

Yakima School District encourages workforce diversity and complies with all state and federal laws prohibiting unlawful discrimination.

YAKIMA SCHOOL DISTRICT #7
School Board Budget Work Session
Tuesday, July 9, 2024; 7:00pm
In-person meeting only
Conference Rooms A & B
Members present
Norm Walker, Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro, Jr. and Ryan Beckett were
present.
A. CALL TO ORDER
1. Call to Order
President Walker called the meeting to order at 7:00pm.
2. Pledge of Allegiance
This was inadvertently missed.
3. Yakama Land Acknowledgement
This was inadvertently missed.
B. BUDGET WORK STUDY SESSION
1. Current Financial Situation - Jake Kuper, Kim Newell and Chris Miller
• Overview by Mr. Jake Kuper, Assistant Superintendent of Finance
o Recap of the March 25, 2024 school board meeting announcement on Reduction
in Force (RIF)
o Update from Human Resources on March 25, 2024 RIF/Recall announcement
o Financial impact of 2023-2024 RIF/Recall and programmatic reductions
• Post RIF/Recall challenges emerged
o 2023-2024: current status of the following:
▪ Federal Revenue Decline
▪ Levy Equalization
▪ Special Education costs exceeding budget
• Enrollment trends and budget forecast implications
2. Overview of Current Budget Challenges and Implications of Ongoing Spending - Supt
Greene, Jake Kuper and K.C. Mitchell
• Current Finance spending restrictions (will continue and be evaluated monthly)
• Special education - Matrix that will assure effective systems supporting students:
• Supplemental contracts and supplemental pay
3. Actions for the Upcoming Fiscal Year - Kirsten Fitterer and Jake Kuper
• Recommendations by Mr. Jake Kuper (strategies to mitigate financial constraints and
stabilize budgets):
o Open enrollment marketing campaign and potential impact
o Budget planning for upcoming cycles
o Timing/Cadence (recommended for discussion)
4. Long-Term Financial Planning

5. Strategies for Community Engagement (Time Permitting)
This was not addressed.
6. Final remarks - Supt Greene
Supt Greene closed with reiterating this deadline as board members expressed concern in having
enough time to review all budget materials prior to approving the upcoming budget:
•
•
•
•

Preliminary budget public hearing on July 30 (next Board meeting)
Resolution on apportionment advancement on July 30
Possible program Reduction in Force on Aug 5
Budget adoption on Aug. 20

C. EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. Move to Executive Session
In accordance with RCW 42.30.110, that the Board of Directors, at 7:50p.m., move into
executive session for the purpose of current or potential litigation with legal counsel as well as
performance of a public employee for approximately 60 minutes.
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
2. Adjourn from Executive Session
Adjourned from Exec Session at 8:54pm.
H. ADJOURNMENT
1. Adjournment
President Walker adjourned at 8:56pm.

Norm Walker, President

Trevor Greene, Secretary to the Board

YAKIMA SCHOOL DISTRICT #7
Business Board Meeting
Tuesday, July 30, 2024; 7:00pm
In-person meeting, live-streamed & recorded (link)
Conference Rooms A & B

Members present
Norm Walker, Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice and Ryan Beckett were present. Raymond
Navarro, Jr. was excused.
A. CALL TO ORDER
1. Call to Order
President Walker called the meeting to order at 7:01pm. Jorge announced he is offering
interpretation services.
2. Pledge of Allegiance
President Walker led the board in the Pledge of Allegiance. He then read the Character Word of
the month: Enterprise.
3. Yakama Land Acknowledgement
A video of YSD students reciting the Land Acknowledgement was played.
4. Moment of Silence to Honor the Memory of Robert Harold "Nick" LeCuyer
President Walker asked for a moment of silence to honor the memory of Robert Harold "Nick"
LeCuyer.
B. PUBLIC HEARING This section can be watched at 6:30 time stamp.
1. Public Hearing - Preliminary Budget 2024-25 Jake Kuper
President Walker gaveled into the preliminary budget at 7:06pm.
Mr. Kuper shared the attached presentation by suggesting the board not approve the budget due
to it being a deficit budget. This is a $3 million deficit. He did state he believes we hit the bottom
and believes we are working our way up. He ran through an overview of all funds. He shared the
enrollment history for the past 10 years with the classified and certified staff FTE's, the
enrollment comparison for the different programs YSD offers (ALE, Running Start and Open
Doors), an overview of the Special Education Funding and explained the comparison to the
General Fund budgets.
The board members asked about the strengths of this budget and the plan on getting it adopted
before the state required date of August 31. Mr. Kuper will bring back a balanced budget for
approval to the August 20th board meeting.
2. Public Comment on Public Hearing This section can be watched at 59:50 time stamp.
Steve McKenna spoke on the topic of the budget.
President Walker adjourned the public hearing at 8:03pm.

C. REPORT TO THE BOARD This section can be watched at 1:04 time stamp.
1. Special Education Services Report to the Board - K.C. Mitchell, Executive Director of Special
Education
K.C. Mitchell presented a detailed overview on special education for the 2023-2024 school year.
The district served 2,431 students with diverse abilities during this period. Achievement data and
departmental goals for future improvement were shared. The complete presentation is uploaded
to BoardDocs.
Regarding Special Ed Compliance, emphasis was placed on Least Restrictive Environment
(LRE), with plans to increase inclusion in general education classes, particularly for LRE3
students. Mitchell highlighted three key focus areas for the 2024-2025 school year: IEP
Compliance, Speech and Language Services, and one-on-one support.
The board discussed initiatives to train teachers in behavior management and inclusive practices.
Mitchell also outlined the process for Safety Net and reimbursement for Special Ed services.
D. UPDATES This section can be watched at 1:24 time stamp.
1. Members of the Board
Director Rice shared that the Legislative time opens on August 1st for about 10 days and then
WSSDA will measure and evaluate the suggestions and see if they can reach resolution on the
proposals. The handbook with all proposals is currently in draft form on the WSSDA website.
The final handbook will be ready for the General Assembly at the end of September.
2. Superintendent's Update
Supt Greene shared some items around compliance in addressing the lack of funding. There is a
draft article that was shared with the board members. There was a convening of superintendent's
together with some UW colleagues.
The Seattle Times reached out to Supt Greene for an article on the work YSD is doing with
safety. He wrote an op-ed article on YSD's Handle With Care Program.
We have a partnership with the Teacher Access Foundation (TAF) to collaborate with our
leadership at no cost to YSD.
Supt Greene met with Principal Diener and shared the amount of credits YSD students have
earned through EWU and CWU in the College in the High School program. This isn't something
that comes back to the district financially, however, does help our families in our community.
Currently the legislature is paying for the Running Start programs and the College in the High
School program. The AA in the HS will provide more students with the opportunity for our
students to graduate from HS with an AA while not leaving the school building.
3. Calendar Updates and Future Agenda Items
Kirsten Fitterer shared important school events and district events which are listed on
BoardDocs.
4. Monthly Financial Update - Jake Kuper
Mr. Kuper, Assistant Supt of Finance, shared the attached presentation on YSD's monthly
financial report. June is the low cashflow month in the general fund.

5. Comments from the Public on Agenda Items
There were no public commenters.
E. CONSENT AGENDA This section can be watched at 1:44 time stamp.
1. Approval of Consent Agenda
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Ryan Beckett. Final Resolution: Motion carried 4/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
2. Approval of June 2024 Minutes
3. Approval of Personnel Actions
4. Notification of Approval of Warrants for June 2024
5. Budget Status Reports for June 2024
F. APPROVALS This section can be watched at 1:45 time stamp.
1. Approval of PSE Agreement - Chris Miller, Director of Human Resources
2. Approval to Purchase Diesel School Buses - Dr. Trevor Greene, Supt
3. Petition for Resolution 06.23.24 Emergency Apportionment Advancement - Jake Kuper
4. Second Opportunity for Comments from the Public - All Other
There were two public commenters.
G. POLICY GOVERNANCE This section can be watched at 1:58 time stamp.
1. Approval of Policies from June 24, 2024 meeting
H. EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. Move to Executive Session
No need for an executive session tonight.
I. ADJOURNMENT
1. Adjournment
President Walker adjourned at 6:30pm.
J. INFORMATION REPORTS TO THE BOARD
1. Monthly Discipline Report for June 2024
2. Out of State Travel Reports

Norm Walker, President

Trevor Greene, Secretary to the Board

