104 N. FOURTH AVENUE
YAKIMA, WASHINGTON 98902-2636
(509) 573-7000
Website: www.YSD7.org

ACTION ITEM
DATE:

April 22, 2024

TO:

Board of Directors

FROM: Dr. Trevor Greene, Superintendent
RE:

Approval of March 2024 Board Meeting Minutes

Requested Action: That the Board of Directors approves the meeting minutes for the
following Board meetings in the month of January.
March 11th –School Board Retreat
March 12th – School Board Executive Session
March 12th – Business School Board Meeting
March 25th – School Board Meeting
YSD Strategic Plan Alignment: The Board meetings align with all of the strategic
goals throughout the year.
Fiscal Impact: Not applicable.
Background Information: The minutes from the prior month are presented at each
board meeting for approval.

Yakima School District encourages workforce diversity and complies with all state and federal laws prohibiting unlawful discrimination.

YAKIMA SCHOOL DISTRICT #7
Board Retreat
Monday, March 11, 2024; 8:30am – 4:00pm
In-person only
Yakima, Washington
Members present
Norm Walker, Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro, Jr. and Ryan Beckett were
present.
A. CALL TO ORDER
1. President Walker called the meeting to order at 8:38am.
2. Pledge of Allegiance
President Walker led the board in the Pledge of Allegiance.
3. Yakama Land Acknowledgement
A video of YSD students reciting the Land Acknowledgement was played.
B. AGENDA
1. Board | Superintendent Systems – Dr. Mary Alice Heuschel
2. Legislative Impact After Session - Dr. Trevor Greene, Superintendent
Supt Greene and Assistant Supt of Finance, Jake Kuper, shared some important information on:
• Review Guiding Principles for RIF
• Percentages of expenditures
• Preliminary Results of Short Session
• Initiative 2081: Parents Bill of Rights
3. Board Business – Bob Noe, Chief Legal Council
The Board reviewed all 1100+ policies. Bob Noe's office will make the edits and approval of
said edits will be at the 3/25 meeting.
4. Working Lunch
K.C. Mitchell discussed Special Education. He presented the top ten ambitious goals for SpEd
next school year.
5. Field Trip – School Visitation
The board left from 12:30pm – 1:40pm to tour the Discovery Early Learning Center while it is
under construction.
6. CEE Data – Dr. John Steach
Dr. Steach presented on these top targets today:
• Overview of EES Data (Staff, Student, Family, District)
• How to Interpret Results from the YSD Survey’s
o Including Relationship Trust with Leadership/Staff

•

Identify 2-3 Key Areas of Focus

7. Closing - Dr. Trevor Greene, Superintendent
C. ADJOURNMENT
1. Adjournment
VP Villanueva adjourned the meeting at 4:21pm.

Norm Walker, President

Trevor Greene, Secretary to the Board

YAKIMA SCHOOL DISTRICT #7
Board Retreat
Monday, March 12, 2024; 6:00pm
In-person only
Yakima, Washington

Members present
Norm Walker, Martha Rice and Ryan Beckett were present, with Graciela Villanueva and
Raymond Navarro, Jr. joining late.
A. CALL TO ORDER
1. President Walker called the meeting to order at 6:03pm.
B. EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. Move to Executive Session
In accordance with RCW 42.30.110, that the Board of Directors, at 6:18p.m., move into
executive session for the purpose of performance of a public employee for approximately 60
minutes.
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Ryan Beckett. Motion carried 4/0.
Yea: Martha Rice, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
2. Adjourn from Executive Session
They adjourned from executive session at 6:55pm.
C. ADJOURNMENT
1. Adjournment
President Walker adjourned the meeting at 6:55pm to a abide to the start of the business meeting
at 7:00pm.

Norm Walker, President

Trevor Greene, Secretary to the Board

YAKIMA SCHOOL DISTRICT #7
Board Retreat
Monday, March 12, 2024; 7:00pm
In-person, live streamed and recorded
Yakima, Washington

Members present
Norm Walker, Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro, Jr. and Ryan Beckett were
present.
A. CALL TO ORDER
1. President Walker called the meeting to order at 7:00pm.
2. Pledge of Allegiance
President Walker led the board in the Pledge of Allegiance and read the word of the month:
Grace/Cortes.
3. Yakama Land Acknowledgement
A video of YSD students reciting the Land Acknowledgement was played.
4. Moment of Silence to honor the memories of Judy M. Frank, Donald W. Sublett and Sally
Esther Diaz
5. Recognitions
Members from the Yakima County School Retirees Association were in attendance.
Two more teachers, Brian Beck and Laurel Kaschmitter, have earned the honor of National
Board Certified Teachers through an intense program. Mrs. Kaschmitter was present and thanked
the board for supporting this task.
6. Proclamations
Director Navarro Jr. read the Education Support Professionals Month Proclamation and Director
Becket read the School Retirees’ Appreciation Week Proclamation.
B. AGENDA
1. Members of the Board Updates
This portion of the agenda starts at 19:22 in the recording. Director Rice gave a legislative
update. She will bring her proposals for approval for the March 25th deadline. There were 20+
educational bills, others were fiscal. She asked the board members to review and reach out with
questions.
Director Navarro Jr. notified the board the NAELO Conference is in June. This year is the 41st
annual conference and is being recognized as the Latino Political Convention. There will be
equity and education topics.

2. Superintendent's Update
Supt Greene presented his update.
3. Calendar Updates and Future Agenda Topics
Kirsten Fitterer shared some important upcoming events that the Board may be interested in
attending.
4. Monthly Financial Update - Jake Kuper
This portion of the meeting starts at 45:00 in the recording. Mr. Kuper shared the legislative
update with regards to the budget. He then shared the attached presentation.
5. Comments from the Public on Agenda Items
Duff DeWitt was a public commenter on the agenda item of the budget.
C. CONCENT AGENDA 57:50
1. Approval of Consent Agenda
That the Board of Directors approves the Consent Agenda as submitted.
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Raymond Navarro Jr. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
2. Approval of Minutes
3. Notification of Approval of Warrants for February 2024
4. Approval of Personnel Actions
5. Budget Status Report - Jake Kuper
D. APPROVALS 59:00
1. Asset Preservation Program Annual Board Report - Anthony Murrietta
That the Board of Directors approves the asset preservation program annual report as submitted.
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Raymond Navarro Jr. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
2. Approval of Resolution 03.23.24: ICOS Study & Survey Acceptance as Complete - Jake
Kuper
That the Board of Directors approves the Consent Agenda as submitted.
Motion by Ryan Beckett, second by Martha Rice. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
3. Second Opportunity for Comments from the Public - All Other
E. EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. Move to Executive Session

In accordance with RCW 42.30.110, that the Board of Directors, at 8:12p.m., move into
executive session for the purpose of performance of a public employee for approximately 20
minutes.
Motion by Ryan Beckett, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
2. Adjourn from Executive Session
They adjourned from executive session at 8:37pm.
F. ADJOURNMENT
1. Adjournment
President Walker adjourned the meeting at 8:39pm.
G. INFORMATION REPORTS TO THE BOARD
1. Monthly Discipline Report
2. Out-of-State Travel Reports
3. Enrollment Report

Norm Walker, President

Trevor Greene, Secretary to the Board

YAKIMA SCHOOL DISTRICT #7
Board Meeting
Monday, March 25, 2024; 4:00pm
In-person, live streamed and recorded
Yakima, Washington

Members present
Norm Walker, Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro, Jr. and Ryan Beckett were
present.
A. CALL TO ORDER
1. President Walker called the meeting to order at 4:00pm.
2. Pledge of Allegiance
President Walker led the board in the Pledge of Allegiance.
3. Yakama Land Acknowledgement
A video of YSD students reciting the Land Acknowledgement was played.
4. Moment of Silence to Honor the Memory of a Student
B. REPORTS TO THE BOARD
1. YSD Budget Management and the Pending Reduction in Force - John Cavanaugh, YEA
President
President John Cavanaugh and Duff DeWitt, Yakima Education Association, presented. Their
report starts at 6:22 in this recording.
2. Annual Curriculum & Instruction Report - Erin Chaplin, Exec Director of Curriculum &
Instruction
This report starts at 17:40 in the recorded meeting. Ms. Chaplin shared the attached presentation
in BoardDocs.
C. UPDATES
1. Members of the Board Updates
There were no legislative proposals submitted for consideration at the leg meeting. There will be
a decision in April at that meeting.
2. Superintendent’s Update
3. Calendar Updates and Future Agenda Topics
Kirsten Fitterer shared some important upcoming school events with the board.
4. Comments from the Public on agenda items

Michael Clark, teacher at Ridgeview Elementary, Frances Guerrero and Hailey Adkison,
teachers at Eisenhower High School, spoke on the recent reduction in force. This portion of the
meeting starts at 1:02:45 in this recording.
D. APPROVALS
1. Approval of the selected service provider and contract for Internet Service Provider (ISP
services) in the amount of $198,000.00 over five years - Jake Kuper, Asst Supt of Finance
That the Board of Directors approves the selected RFP proposer and grants approval to contract
with Fatbeam for five years to provide E-rate-eligible ISP services and associated support
services.
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
2. Approval of Resolution 04.23.24 Program Reduction in Force for 2024-25 - Jake Kuper, Asst
Supt of Finance
This report starts at 1:15:30 in the recorded meeting. Supt Greene shared the step-by-step
timeline that the Administration has taken from July 2023 to current day. Jake Kuper, Assistant
Supt of Finance, presented on the attached powerpoint. There are four documents attached to this
meeting: An action letter, Resolution 04.23.24, a narrative overview of the Program Reduction in
Force and a powerpoint. Jake explained the historical student and staff FTE for YSD. He also
recapped the enrollment and staffing numbers. He shared the graphs of the General Fund
Balance Trend. The 2024-25 Summary of Proposed Program Reduction in Force for board action
is $14,669,456. Mr. Kuper shared the contractual reductions from vendors, the 24-25 Executed
Program Reduction in Force positions and a summary by Unit, and then a chart that showed the
beginning fund balance with line items of increased costs or loss of revenue and increases in
revenues. The goal is to stabilize the budget.
That the Board of Directors Approves Resolution 04.23.24 for the proposed 2024-25 Program
Reduction in Force as presented.
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 4/0/1.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
Abstain: Raymond Navarro Jr
3. Second Opportunity for Public Comment
Michael Clark, teacher at Ridgeview Elementary and Duff DeWitt, teacher at Eisenhower High
School commented on the Reduction in Force.
E. POLICY GOVERNANCE
1. Student Voice Policy - Supt Student Voice Council
The board took a break at 6:25pm as many guests were departing from the meeting and returned
from break at 6:33pm. The Policy Governance starts at 2:23:00 of the meeting recording. As this
is a first reading of this policy - it will be on the next meeting for approval.
2. OP 6112 Rental or Lease of District Real Property - Bob Noe, Chief Legal Counsel

Mr. Noe brought this forward to the board. As this is a first reading of this policy - it will be on
the next meeting for approval.
3. 1000.1.0 Global Ends Statement - Goal #2 - Omar Santoy, Exec Director of Student Services
Mr. Santoy presented on Goal #2 of the Compass: All Students: Empowered, Connected,
Supported Resilient, Engaged. He shared the attendance formulas from OSPI versus Skyward.
He also shared the Center for Educational Effectiveness (CEE) survey data. His full presentation
is attached on BoardDocs. The board members asked clarifying questions on the data and how it
is compiled.
F. EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. Move to Executive Session
In accordance with RCW 42.30.110, that the Board of Directors, at 7:06p.m., move into
executive session for the purpose of current or potential litigation with legal counsel for
approximately 10 minutes.
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
2. Adjourn from Executive Session
They adjourned from executive session at 7:19pm.
G. ADJOURNMENT
1. Adjournment
President Walker adjourned the meeting at 7:23pm.

Norm Walker, President

Trevor Greene, Secretary to the Board

