  Special Meeting - Study Session 6:00 P.M. (Monday, August 19, 2024)
Generated by Claren McLaughlin on Tuesday, August 27, 2024
Members present
Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias
Meeting called to order at 9:27 PM
1. Opening Items
Procedural: A. Call Meeting to Order
  Procedural: B. Pledge of Allegiance
    2. Discussion
  Discussion, Information: A. Budget Discussion
Ms. Lewis provided an overview of the district's current financial state as noted in her presentation. She gave a recap about the funding sources with additional details about the General Fund allocations; Local revenue, General Apportionment, Special Education, Learning Assistance Program, Multilingual and Migrant, Highly Capable, Transportation, Early Learning, Federal Instructional Programs, CTE-supplemental, Food Service, Grants, Revenue from other Districts, ESD.

Kirryn asked if all surrounding school districts are in our transportation co-op. Not all districts use our Transportation Co-op services.

The budget hearing is August 22nd and the board will have an opportunity to vote on the budget to give their authority to spend the money during the school year.

Kirryn noted her appreciation for the interim superintendent and her team's work towards open communication and transparency with the budget.

--

Ms. Urias asked how many bank accounts the district has. Thompson responded that we have a number of accounts for different purposes such as fines and fees, payroll, etc. Depending on your accountant, fewer bank accounts may be preferred but it is generally better to have a variety of accounts. Ms. Lewis added that we do need to be mindful moving forward which may include consolidating but the district will continue to carefully consider the options.

Kirryn inquired about a potential secondary interfund loan. Lewis explained if we need one, it would be in November when our cash flow is at its lowest.
  3. Adjournment
  Action: A. Adjournment Time
Meeting adjourned at 6:40pm
  Motion to adjourn
  Motion by Amy Breitenstein, second by Paul Hill.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias

   