Regular Meeting at 6:00 P.M. (Thursday, November 21, 2024)
Generated by Ryan Shannon on Friday, November 8, 2024
  Members present
Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias, Ryan Coulston
  Meeting called to order at 6:00 PM
  1. Opening Items
  Procedural: A. Pledge of Allegiance
  Action, Minutes: B. Approval of Minutes from Regular Meeting - November 7
  Motion to approve the meeting minutes from the aforementioned meeting.
Motion by Paul Hill, second by Amy Breitenstein.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias
Abstain: Ryan Coulston
  Action: C. Changes or Additions to the Agenda
  No changes or additions
  Action: D. Adoption of Agenda
  Motion to adopt the agenda
Motion by Carla Urias, second by Paul Hill.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias, Ryan Coulston
  2. Recognition
    3. Consent Agenda
Action (Consent): A. Personnel
    Action (Consent): B. Accounts Payable/Payroll
    Action (Consent): C. Surplus
  Action (Consent): D. Contracts
  Action (Consent): E. Donations
Ryan Coulston gave praise to Sage Point for reaching its goal for the Lexia progam.
Action (Consent): F. Field Trip Requests
Action (Consent): G. Approval of Consent Agenda
  Motion to approve the entire consent agenda (items A-F).
Motion by Paul Hill, second by Ryan Coulston.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias, Ryan Coulston
  4. Citizen Comments
Mary Shipley - Spoke about frustrations with Frontier Middle School during the recent parent conference day
  5. Old Business
  6. New Business
Action: A. Absher Construction
The board heard from Brian Sewell, Palouse Hills Consulting, via telephone regarding the agreement between the Moses Lake School District and Absher Construction to finish up remaining items to be completed at Vanguard Academy. 
Paul Hill asked what Absher's status has been in this process. Brian responded that they have been the contractor all along on Vanguard.  Brian continued that we are working through details per our contract with Absher to complete work.
Ryan Coulston asked how Absher has received on their end. Brian stated that this discussion would need to move to an executive session to go into contractor performance. 
Brian continued that it has been a disappointment in the process. Ryan Coulston asked about the timeline presented.  Brian responded that the timeline was created via mediation.
         Motion to approve the proposed agreement with Absher Construction
Motion by Ryan Coulston, second by Paul Hill.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias, Ryan Coulston
  7. Information Items
Action: A. Finance Audit Committee Designees
Ryan Coulston and Carla Urias will attend the next committee meeting.
  Action: B. Superintendent's Report
Carol Lewis shared with state assessment data with the Board. The data is a picture of how the District is doing as a whole not necessarily how individuals are doing. The good news is we are seeing some growth in the number of students meeting standards. Some of the growth is due to the focus on professional learning communities within the District. She moved on to discuss her continued community engagement event, Sup's On.  The November event was a huge success, and the outreach continues to grow.  The next event will be December 16th. 
Carol put together some information regarding substitutes within the District.  MLSD is not unlike most districts in dealing with the ongoing struggle to fill substitute needs. She outlined the process for individuals to become substitutes with the District. She continued that we have a limit for substitutes to work no more than 630 hours in a year due to the inclusion of benefit pay beyond that number which leads to a high expense. We continue to manage this closely.
Ryan Coulston clarified that we are at an 84% fill rate for our substitutes openings.
Carol continued her presentation with discussion of the new snow removal plan which should lead to a cost savings for the District. This new plan will call for us to learn how long the process will take.  This manifests into a school closure on the first significant snow day should that fall on a school day of operation.  The maintenance department has come together to put a plan in place.
Carol discussed the bid process for the surplus real property that the District has announced intent to sell. Mitch Thompson discussed briefly how the process will work on the bid openings on December 6th.
Carol completed her presentation with a comparison of payroll on a month to month basis.  The data shows that we are moving towards the savings that the District needs to have. The data shows we are not in an over staffing situation and that staff ratios are more appropriate. 
    Action: C. Student Representative Comments
Andee Stevens shared her thoughts with the Board. She shared that the Key Club at MLHS had the opportunity to run a blood drive. She also added that the math team had their first tournament which went very well. They fundraise at these tournaments in order to limit their financial obligations. Andee continued by stating the MLHS theater department put on a great musical lately. Also, winter sports have started and this is great to see. Andee finished by stating that she has witnessed more students engaging in their learning at the high school, as well as, more students taking pride in picking up their environment and keeping it clean for all.
  Action: D. Board Comments
Amy thanked Carol for her efforts to grow community engagement.
Carla added a Happy Thanksgiving to all.
Ryan gave a shout out to CAA for all that they have done for our students this year as we move towards sustainability.
Paul added his thankfulness for our new superintendent, Carol Lewis.
Kirryn ended board comments with a Happy Thanksgiving and asked for positive thoughts for the west side of the state as people deal with the aftermath of the drastic weather and power issues effecting many.
  8. Adjournment
  Motion to adjourn
Motion by Paul Hill, second by Amy Breitenstein
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Amy Breitenstein, Carla Urias, Ryan Coulston 
  Meeting adjourned at 6:44pm