  Special Meeting 6:30 P.M. (Thursday, September 26, 2024)
Generated by Claren McLaughlin on Wednesday, October 2, 2024
  Members present
Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Carla Urias, Ryan Coulston
  Amy Breitenstein excused. 
  Meeting called to order at 6:30 PM
  1. Opening Items
Procedural: A. Call Meeting to Order
  Procedural: B. Pledge of Allegiance
    Action: C. Changes or Additions to the Agenda
    Action: D. Adoption of Agenda
Motion to adopt the agenda
  Motion by Paul Hill, second by Carla Urias.
Final Resolution: Motion Passes
Yea: Paul Hill, Kirryn Jensen, Carla Urias, Ryan Coulston
Not Present at Vote: Amy Breitenstein

  2. Citizen Comments
  Public comment on non-agenda items included the recent amendment to the WIAA resolution, the financial audit, and nursing staff shortages.
      3. Old Business
Discussion: B. Financial Audit Discussion
  Mr. Coulston began the discussion noting that it would be great to know the history of bad money decisions, however, he does not feel it is a great idea to do an audit today. He added that we pay to have state audits every year, and we have passed the audits every year, and no errors were found when there were errors. He added that we've told the community we do not have money, we do not have sports, and yet we can come up with the money to do an audit.
Public comment was accepted from the audiens, who asked clarifying questions about the state audit. Mr Thompson informed the board that state audits take a sample of financial pictures and documents were provided to pass the audits.
Further public statement was accepted regarding how communication can further be delivered to the community. The board discussed methods of communication. 
Thompson added that the ESD was notified and the errors were immediately discovered. The audit this coming year will be much more intense.
Mr. Hill clarified there is no vote during the evenings discussion. He further read a statement about his intentions to drive the audit to prevent any errors in the future. He stated he has not received accuruate reports for 3 years.
Thompson reminded the board that we do not have the minimum fund balance required by board policy - so we do not have the money to spend regardless of their choice. Ms Lewis added that we are out of compliance in a few additional areas, including PE but we are not fully funded bythe state to provide the things this communicty considers basic.
Jensen asked if there are additional solutions for nurses that we can consider. Thompson noted when there are legal requirements for 504 plans we ensure the proper staffing is hired and there are two LPN positions open at this time. 
Jensen indicated she has received comments from the community both for and against the audit and is still conflicted.
Couslton declared he is 100% for an audit, but not yet, Especially due to the financial burden on employees, thus the cost is two fold. Thompson stated, if an audit happened, he wuld need to hire two or more more employees, get them up to speed and spend all of his time with the auditor.
Thompson responded to public statement requesting his opinion about whether an audit is needed. He sated, if an audit happened, he's confident there is no "smoking gun" and the amount of responsibility placed on one person pushed them to fail their job, and the next person failed their job. He also wanted to note that overspending has been an issue for years.
  4. Adjournment
  Information: A. Adjournment Time
  Motion to adjourn by Paul Hill, second by Carla Urias.
Not Present at Vote: Amy Breitenstein
  Meeting adjourned at 7:45 pm
 