YAKIMA SCHOOL DISTRICT #7
Business Board Meeting
Tuesday, February 13, 2024; 7:00pm
Virtual meeting, live-streamed & recorded
Yakima, Washington
  Members present
Norm Walker, Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice and Ryan Beckett were present. Raymond Navarro, Jr. was excused.
  A. CALL TO ORDER
1. Call to Order
President Walker called the meeting to order at 7:01pm. Jorge offered interpretation services.
  2. Pledge of Allegiance
President Walker led us in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  3. Yakama Land Acknowledgement
A video of YSD students reciting the Land Acknowledgement was played.
  4. Moment of Silence to Honor the Memory of Barry Woolman
President Walker held a moment of silence for Mr. Barry Woolman.
5. Recognitions
Vice President Villanueva read the recognition for Nation PTA as they celebrate 127 years.
The board members recognized all PTA Booster parents in all Yakima School District schools with a certificate of appreciation.
  6. Proclamations
Director Beckett read the Career and Technical Education Month Proclamation. Director Rice read the Black History Month Proclamation and President Walker read the School Counseling Week Proclamation.
  B. UPDATES
1. Members of the Board Updates
President Walker stated he would like to attend the NSBA National Conference. Vice President Villanueva said she attended Discovery Early Learning Center and enjoyed visiting with parents. She shared some comments from parents. Director Rice reminded the board members that the legislative session is still going on with March 7th as the last day. There is a lot going on in Olympia with every deadline.
  2. Superintendent's Update
Supt Greene introduced Principal Steve Brownlow who presented his Attendance Parent Group called The Garfield Great! This group of parents have made a positive impact since 2017 in attendance at Garfield. Supt Greene shared his LinkedIn posts, which included school site visits at the Hoover Elementary, Eisenhower High School, Discovery Early Learning Center, and his visit to Wahluke School District visiting the event called The Amazing Shake, the Heads and Principals Association Annual Conference, 100th Day of School, and the Superintendent Student Voice Council event. Supt Greene then shared that Raymond Santana presented at Eisenhower High School and Downtown Yakima Rotary last week. The old CFAC group reconvened and moving forward will be called Facilities & Boundary Assessment Committee - addressing the recommendations on a potential bond moving forward. He gave a legislative update and that is on BoardDocs.
  3. Legislative Proposal Discussion - Director Rice
Director Rice urged the board members to take a more active role in reviewing the proposals for the General Assembly. She requested feedback on any proposals that should be removed or added and expressed her intention to finalize the proposal selections by the February 26th board meeting. She then emphasized the importance of board member participation in finalizing the proposals for the General Assembly's agenda. She pointed out the WSSDA General Assembly Handbook 2023, starting on page 21, as a key resource containing all current proposals. President Walker encouraged board members to participate in the WSSDA's legislative update session scheduled for Thursday at noon.
  4. Calendar Updates and Future Agenda Topics
There are important school events and district events listed on BoardDocs.
  5. Monthly Financial Update - Jake Kuper
Jake Kuper, Asst Supt of Finance, shared that enrollment counts continue to decline with smaller inbound kindergarten classes and larger senior classes graduating. The cash flow and total expenditures are in-line with the projection. The ESSER III will be drawn down during February and March when the final invoices are paid out.
  6. Comments from the Public on Agenda Items
Phyllis Frank talked about a balanced instructional calendar and expressed her desire for YSD to implement a more balanced calendar for our students.
  C. CONSENT AGENDA
1. Approval of Consent Agenda
Motion by Graciela Villanueva, second by Martha Rice. Motion carried 4/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
  2. Approval of January 2024 Minutes
  3. Notification of Approval of Warrants for January 2024
  4. Approval of Personnel Actions
  5. Budget Status Reports for January 2024
  D. ACTION
1. Approval of 2024-2025 Instructional School Calendar
President Rice stated her comments on a more balanced calendar. Director Beckett shares we work off older calendar methods and we need to be very proactive in calendar planning in the future. President Walker also mentioned state WSSDA legislative proposals, get statewide energy to work on this.
  That the Board of Directors approves the 2024-25 Instructional School Calendar.
  Motion by Graciela Villanueva, second by Ryan Beckett. Motion carried 4/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
  The meeting was interrupted to announce that the Yakima School District Levy has passed!
  2. Bargaining for the Yakima Association of Building Services/Yakima School District Agreement - Anthony Murrietta
That the Board of Directors approves the agreement between the Yakima Association of Building Services and the Yakima School District.
  Motion by Ryan Beckett, second by Martha Rice. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
  3. Second Opportunity for Comments from the Public - All Other
There were no comments at this time.
  E. POLICY GOVERNANCE
1. Approval of Policy 1000.1.0 Global ENDS Report
Regarding the one comment on trend data, Supt Greene shared that his team will share data and bring that forward at a later date, most likely the March Board Retreat. There was no action taken on this agenda item.
  E. EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. Move to Executive Session
In accordance with RCW 42.30.110, that the Board of Directors, at 8:33p.m., move into executive session for the purpose of current or potential litigation with legal counsel for approximately 15 minutes.
  Motion by Ryan Beckett, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
  2. Adjourn from Executive Session
They adjourned from executive session at 8:48pm.
  F. ADJOURNMENT
1. Adjournment
President Walker adjourned the meeting at 8:52pm.
  G. INFORMATION REPORTS TO THE BOARD
1. Monthly Discipline Report
2. Enrollment Report
                                                                                                                                                            Norm Walker, President                                             Trevor Greene, Secretary to the Board
                   