YAKIMA SCHOOL DISTRICT #7
Board Meeting
Monday, March 25, 2024; 4:00pm
In-person, live streamed and recorded
Yakima, Washington
      Members present
Norm Walker, Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro, Jr. and Ryan Beckett were present.
  A. CALL TO ORDER
1. President Walker called the meeting to order at 4:00pm.
  2. Pledge of Allegiance
President Walker led the board in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  3. Yakama Land Acknowledgement
A video of YSD students reciting the Land Acknowledgement was played.
  4. Moment of Silence to Honor the Memory of a Student
  B. REPORTS TO THE BOARD
1. YSD Budget Management and the Pending Reduction in Force - John Cavanaugh, YEA President
President John Cavanaugh and Duff DeWitt, Yakima Education Association, presented. Their report starts at 6:22 in this recording.
  2. Annual Curriculum & Instruction Report - Erin Chaplin, Exec Director of Curriculum & Instruction
This report starts at 17:40 in the recorded meeting. Ms. Chaplin shared the attached presentation in BoardDocs.
  C. UPDATES
1. Members of the Board Updates
There were no legislative proposals submitted for consideration at the leg meeting. There will be a decision in April at that meeting.
2. Superintendent’s Update

3. Calendar Updates and Future Agenda Topics
Kirsten Fitterer shared some important upcoming school events with the board.
4. Comments from the Public on agenda items
Michael Clark, teacher at Ridgeview Elementary, Frances Guerrero and Hailey Adkison, teachers at Eisenhower High School, spoke on the recent reduction in force. This portion of the meeting starts at 1:02:45 in this recording.
  D. APPROVALS
1. Approval of the selected service provider and contract for Internet Service Provider (ISP services) in the amount of $198,000.00 over five years - Jake Kuper, Asst Supt of Finance
That the Board of Directors approves the selected RFP proposer and grants approval to contract with Fatbeam for five years to provide E-rate-eligible ISP services and associated support services.
  Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
  2. Approval of Resolution 04.23.24 Program Reduction in Force for 2024-25 - Jake Kuper, Asst Supt of Finance
This report starts at 1:15:30 in the recorded meeting. Supt Greene shared the step-by-step timeline that the Administration has taken from July 2023 to current day. Jake Kuper, Assistant Supt of Finance, presented on the attached powerpoint. There are four documents attached to this meeting: An action letter, Resolution 04.23.24, a narrative overview of the Program Reduction in Force and a powerpoint. Jake explained the historical student and staff FTE for YSD. He also recapped the enrollment and staffing numbers. He shared the graphs of the General Fund Balance Trend. The 2024-25 Summary of Proposed Program Reduction in Force for board action is $14,669,456. Mr. Kuper shared the contractual reductions from vendors, the 24-25 Executed Program Reduction in Force positions and a summary by Unit, and then a chart that showed the beginning fund balance with line items of increased costs or loss of revenue and increases in revenues. The goal is to stabilize the budget.

That the Board of Directors Approves Resolution 04.23.24 for the proposed 2024-25 Program Reduction in Force as presented.
  Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 4/0/1.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
Abstain: Raymond Navarro Jr
  3. Second Opportunity for Public Comment
Michael Clark, teacher at Ridgeview Elementary and Duff DeWitt, teacher at Eisenhower High School commented on the Reduction in Force.
  E. POLICY GOVERNANCE
1. Student Voice Policy - Supt Student Voice Council
The board took a break at 6:25pm as many guests were departing from the meeting and returned from break at 6:33pm. The Policy Governance starts at 2:23:00 of the meeting recording. As this is a first reading of this policy - it will be on the next meeting for approval.
2. OP 6112 Rental or Lease of District Real Property - Bob Noe, Chief Legal Counsel
Mr. Noe brought this forward to the board. As this is a first reading of this policy - it will be on the next meeting for approval.
  3. 1000.1.0 Global Ends Statement - Goal #2 - Omar Santoy, Exec Director of Student Services
Mr. Santoy presented on Goal #2 of the Compass: All Students: Empowered, Connected, Supported Resilient, Engaged. He shared the attendance formulas from OSPI versus Skyward. He also shared the Center for Educational Effectiveness (CEE) survey data. His full presentation is attached on BoardDocs. The board members asked clarifying questions on the data and how it is compiled. 
  F. EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. Move to Executive Session
In accordance with RCW 42.30.110, that the Board of Directors, at 7:06p.m., move into executive session for the purpose of current or potential litigation with legal counsel for approximately 10 minutes.
  Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
  2. Adjourn from Executive Session
They adjourned from executive session at 7:19pm.
  F. ADJOURNMENT
1. Adjournment
President Walker adjourned the meeting at 7:23pm.
                                                                                                                                                                Norm Walker, President                                             Trevor Greene, Secretary to the Board