104 N. FOURTH AVENUE
YAKIMA, WASHINGTON 98902-2636
(509) 573-7000
Website: www.YSD7.org

ACTION ITEM
DATE:

September 17, 2024

TO:

Board of Directors

FROM: Dr. Trevor Greene, Superintendent
RE:

Approval of August 2024 Board Meeting Minutes

Requested Action: That the Board of Directors approves the meeting minutes for the
following Board meetings and Quorums in the month of July.
• August 5th – School Board Meeting
• August 12th – School Board Retreat
• August 20th – July Business Board Meeting
YSD Strategic Plan Alignment: The Board meetings align with all of the strategic
goals throughout the year.
Fiscal Impact: Not applicable.
Background Information: The minutes from the prior month are presented at each
board meeting for approval.

Yakima School District encourages workforce diversity and complies with all state and federal laws prohibiting unlawful discrimination.

YAKIMA SCHOOL DISTRICT #7
Board Meeting
Monday, August 5, 2024; 4:00pm
In-person meeting, live-streamed & recorded LINK
Conference Rooms A & B
Members present
Norm Walker, Graciela Villanueva, and Martha Rice were present. Ryan Beckett and Raymond
Navarro, Jr. were excused.
A. CALL TO ORDER
1. President Walker called the meeting to order at 4:00pm. Jorge announced he is offering
interpretation services.
2. Pledge of Allegiance
President Walker led the board in the Pledge of Allegiance.
3. Yakama Land Acknowledgement
A video of YSD students reciting the Land Acknowledgement was played.
B. REPORT TO THE BOARD This section can be watched at 4:17 time stamp.
1. Address the Budget - Frances Guerrero, YEA President
President Guerrero presented on the impact of budget cuts, emphasizing cuts to custodians and
paraprofessionals hinder teaching, increased special education needs requiring adequate funding
for true inclusion, and that classified staff play a vital role in student support.
C. UPDATES This section can be watched at 11:20 time stamp.
1. Members of the Board
Director Rice reminded the board that the WSSDA General Assembly handbook is in draft form,
with proposals due by August 20th. The final version will be available at the end of the month in
preparation for the General Assembly in late September.
2. Superintendent's Update
Supt Greene shared that collaboration has been strong throughout the district, particularly among
teachers, in preparation for the school year. Staff has been participating in safety training, PLC
work, a PBIS retreat, and leadership sessions to name a few. The Careers and Conservation
summer program concluded, allowing students to participate in conservation initiatives across
the Valley. Director Rice inquired for the community on how to enroll their students. Mr. Jake
Kuper shared the enrollment website: www.ysd7.org/enrollment or said to call 509.573.7021.
3. Calendar Updates and Future Agenda Items
Kirsten Fitterer shared important school events and district events which are listed on
BoardDocs.
4. Comments from the Public on Agenda Items This section can be watched at 18:37 time
stamp.
Kim Wallberg spoke on budget cuts with regards to paraeducators in SpEd classrooms.

D. APPROVALS This section can be watched at 23:11 time stamp.
1. Approval of Resolution 07.23.24 Program Reduction in Force for 2024-25 - Jake Kuper, Asst
Supt of Finance
Mr. Kuper, Assistant Superintendent of Finance, addressed the attached action letter and
Resolution 07.23.34. He noted that mid-year savings options are limited, with a proposed
reduction in force and a voluntary 5-day furlough for admin, along with a freeze on vacation
cash-outs. September cash flow is impacted by 9 optional workdays paid in that month.
He outlined 39 FTE reductions as per union agreements, clarifying that no paraprofessionals will
be RIF'd, but will be reassigned. Currently, there are 52 classified staff members, with efforts
ongoing to fill all positions.
President Walker inquired about administrative overload, recalling that we should aim for around
9% administration, with 12.5% as the state level maximum.
Mr. Kuper discussed reduced MSOC budgets and financial protocols established prior to the
reductions, including downsizing credit cards to control monthly spending of approximately
$200k. He emphasized the need for timely PO confirmations and adjustments to supplemental
contracts to ensure work is not completed before approval. Contracts with outside vendors have
been renegotiated, especially as ESSER funding concludes, necessitating better deals.
Additionally, efforts are underway to secure grants for upgrading outdated HVAC systems as
part of a multi-pronged strategy to reduce spending.
That the Board of Directors approves Resolution 07.23.24 for the proposed 2024-25 Program
Reduction in Force as presented.
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 3/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Norm Walker
2. Interlocal Agreement with West Valley School District - Jake Kuper, Asst Supt of Finance
Director Rice asked how this will affect our relationship with NW Harvest. Mr. Kuper explained
this contract is for purchasing and NW Harvest is for storage and distribution. Both contracts are
designed to lower food cuts.
That the Board of Directors approves the interlocal agreement between West Valley School
District and Yakima School District.
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 3/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Norm Walker
3. Approval to Award the Contract for the 2024-25 SY - Stacey Locke, Deputy Superintendent
That the Board of Directors grants approval to award the Special Education Certified and
Classified Related Services to include therapy and assessment services in the areas of speech,
occupational, psychology and physical therapy, American Sign Language (ASL), and 1:1 para
services contract on an as-needed basis for the 2024-25 School Year, not to exceed $2,000,000.

Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 3/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Norm Walker
4. Second Opportunity for Public Comment This section can be watched at 56:13 time stamp.
There are 3 public commenters.
1. Felisa Sanchez spoke on budget cuts with regards to Special Education para pros.
2. Steve McKenna spoke on budget cuts.
3. Vickie Dwight spoke on budget cuts.
E. EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. Move to Executive Session
In accordance with RCW 42.30.110, that the Board of Directors, at 5:15p.m., move into
executive session for the purpose of current or potential litigation with legal counsel for
approximately 30 minutes.
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 3/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Norm Walker
2. Adjourn from Executive Session
The board has extended the executive session by 10 minutes.
They adjourned the executive session at 6:02pm.
F. ADJOURNMENT
1. Adjournment
President Walker adjourned at 6:05pm.

Norm Walker, President

Trevor Greene, Secretary to the Board

YAKIMA SCHOOL DISTRICT #7
Board Retreat
Monday, August 12, 2024; 8:30am – 4:00pm
In-person only
Yakima, Washington

Members present
Norm Walker, Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro, Jr. and Ryan Beckett were
present.
A. CALL TO ORDER
1. President Walker called the meeting to order at 8:37am.
2. Pledge of Allegiance
President Walker led the board in the Pledge of Allegiance.
3. Yakama Land Acknowledgement
A video of YSD students reciting the Land Acknowledgement was played.
B. AGENDA
IEP Process | Department Systems - K.C. Mitchell, Executive Director of SpEd Services
Mr. Mitchell outlined the three goals for the Special Education department for the 2024-25
school year: IEP compliance, speech and language services, and 1:1 services. He presented on
various topics, including referral requests, evaluations, data collection and consent, service
provision, paraeducators, and Comprehensive Coordinated Early Intervening Services (CCEIS),
as detailed in the attached presentation.
2. Departments Measurable Topics for 2024-25
Each department participated in a 10-minute presentation rotation, sharing their top priority goals
with board members:
Safety/Athletics - Sara Cordova & Nate Henyan
Maintenance - Kyle Soptich
Technology - Andy Gonzalez
CTE - Bonnie Smith, Gabe Stotz, & Nicole Bass
Human Resources - Chris Miller & Kim Newell
A Q&A session followed, during which Vice President Villanueva emphasized the importance of
communicating the district's positive initiatives amid negative press regarding RIFs. He stated,
"It's crucial for the community to understand that YSD is actively working on many fronts, not
just eliminating staff." The presentations highlight the current state of the district across
departments and are available on BoardDocs.
Overall, there has been a notable culture shift within all departments, fostering enterprise
learning and collaboration.

4. Climate Survey - Andy Gonzalez, Executive Director of Technology Services
Andy Gonzalez presented on the Climate Survey. The four Executive Directors of Teaching and
Learning, Dr. Lucero, Hector Mendez, Jaime Lee, and Jewel Brumley, discussed School Data
Solutions and survey questions.
Concerns were raised about student interpretation of questions and response reliability. President
Walker suggested obtaining feedback from the Student Fellows. The plan is to implement a
condensed survey this year, with a rebound version scheduled for next year.
5. Departments Measurable Topics for 2024-25
Each department participated in a 10-minute presentation rotation, sharing their top priority goals
with board members:
Finance/Payroll - Monette Dennis/Susan Fate/Shari Chapman/Amber Cliett
Student/Health Services - Amy Norton/Erin Thomas/Shawn Orminski
Communication & Engagement - Kirsten Fitterer
Transportation - Art Rodriquez/Rich Porter
Child Nutrition - Cassie Davidson/Marcia Wagner
6. Board Topics
Calendar:
The board approved the meeting calendar as presented, with the decision to reduce retreats to
two per year—scheduled for January and August. The board requested the general intent and
purpose for each retreat in advance. The January retreat will primarily focus on the
Superintendent's evaluation, while the August retreat will address the Board's self-evaluation.
Policy Governance:
The Board discussed tools for monitoring the board evaluation and efficiency. It was decided
that we will implement an Annual Board Self-Evaluation via the WSSDA self-eval tool. With
that, we will continue evaluating policies 1000.3.0 through 1000.4.4 and continue using Survey
Monkey.
Recognitions:
Option 1: Recognize individuals from 6:15 to 6:45 PM, with the meeting starting at 7:00 PM.
Option 2: Hold two or three separate recognition events (not board meetings) focused solely on
this, including retirees. Barb will plan this, with suggested attendance for board members and
recordings available for families.
Option 3: Maintain the current approach.
The decision was made to proceed with Option 2.
Retiree Gift:
The request aligns with the district's goal to reduce costs. It is recommended to consider more
financially responsible gift options, such as local restaurant gift certificates. Supt Greene and
Barb will provide suggestions to the board.
AI Training for Board members will come from Supt Greene and Kirsten Fitterer.

WSSDA Conference: Who will be attending?
Supt Greene, President Walker, VP Villanueva and Director Rice would like to attend. Director
Beckett will sit in for Pres Walker as needed, and Director Navarro, Jr. will let us know.
C. ADJOURNMENT
1. Adjournment
President Walker adjourned the meeting at 4:23pm.

Norm Walker, President

Trevor Greene, Secretary to the Board

YAKIMA SCHOOL DISTRICT #7
Business Board Meeting
Tuesday, August 20, 2024; 7:00pm
In-person meeting, live-streamed & recorded (link)
Conference Rooms A & B
Members present
Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro, Jr. and Ryan Beckett were present. Norm
Walker was excused.
A. CALL TO ORDER
1. Call to Order
Vice President Villanueva called the meeting to order at 7:02pm. Jorge announced he is offering
interpretation services.
2. Pledge of Allegiance
Vice President Villanueva led the board in the Pledge of Allegiance.
3. Yakama Land Acknowledgement
A video of YSD students reciting the Land Acknowledgement was played.
4. Moment of Silence to Honor the Memories of Robert "Dr. Bob" Alexander and Leon "Lee"
Maras
Vice President Villanueva held a moment of silence.
B. REPORT TO THE BOARD This section can be watched at 5:21 time stamp.
1. YEA to Address Budget Concerns - Frances Guerrero, YEA President
YEA President Frances Guerrero addressed budget concerns.
C. UPDATES This section can be watched at 13:13 time stamp.
1. Members of the Board Updates
There were no updates at this time.
2. Superintendent's Update
Supt Greene referenced the article from The Yakima Herald Article: Rising costs for Washington
school districts outpace state funding, report finds. The link to this article is:
https://www.yakimaherald.com/news/local/education/rising-costs-for-washington-schooldistricts-outpace-state-funding-report-finds/article_690d3198-5a6f-11ef-bfdc93096909fec5.html
A summary of the League of Education Voters (LEV) 2024 Funding Equity Report was
presented, with the full report available on BoardDocs. Director Rice inquired where the
community with questions about the report should reach out to. Supt Greene encouraged them to
contact the District Office or reach out via Let's Talk.
Today, the district held Special Education 101 training for all teachers, which was well-received.
Plans are in place to offer Special Education 102 and 103 training over the next two years.

3. Calendar Updates and Future Agenda Items
Kirsten Fitterer shared important school events and district events which are listed on
BoardDocs.
4. Monthly Financial Update - Jake Kuper This section can be watched at 27:00 time stamp.
Mr. Kuper shared the Monthly Financial Update for July 2024.
5. Comments from the Public on Agenda Items This section can be watched at 32:13 time stamp.
There were 3 public commenters.
1. A parent of a student at YOL regarding a proposed YOL closure.
2. A parent expressed she is a levy voter and raised budget concerns.
3. Duff DeWitt spoke on the effects of the budget cuts with regards to teachers.
D. CONSENT AGENDA This section can be watched at 43:24 time stamp..
1. Approval of Consent Agenda
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Ryan Beckett. Final Resolution: Motion carried 4/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Ryan Beckett
2. Approval of July 2024 Minutes
3. Notification of Approval of Warrants for July 2024
4. Approval of Personnel Actions
5. Approval of Out-of-Endorsement Assignments
6. Budget Status Reports for July 2024
8. Interlocal Agreement with ASU and YV-Tech
10. Approval to purchase Grocery, Cleaning and Paper Supply Purchase during the 2024-25
School Year
11. Approval to purchase produce during the 2024-25 school year
12. Approval to Purchase Milk during the 2024-25 school year
E. APPROVALS This section can be watched at 46:35 time stamp.
1. Resolution 08.23.24 Adopting the 2024-25 Budget - Jake Kuper, Assistant Supt of Finance
Mr. Kuper presented the attached budget presentation, available on BoardDocs. The proposed
budget does not show a deficit, and he recommended its approval. Director Rice expressed
appreciation for Mr. Kuper and the admin team's efforts.
Director Raymond Navarro, Jr. recused himself from voting on the budget due to a conflict of
interest, as a family member may be affected by the proposed reductions.
VP Villanueva asked about community feedback on the budget. The surveys were distributed via
Parent Square and Sprout and indicated a predominant opposition to budget reductions. These
responses will be compiled for the board's review. During the board retreat, discussions were

held with ten departments about their savings goals. The ten presenters will return in January to
discuss continued cost savings and provide specific impact numbers. Sharing anticipated savings
will help the community understand the administrative departments' initiatives. A key focus for
the administration is negotiating and renegotiating vendor contracts to achieve further savings.
That the Board of Directors approves Resolution 08.23.24 - Adopting the 2024-25 Budget as
submitted.
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Ryan Beckett. Motion carried 3/1/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Ryan Beckett
Abstain: Raymond Navarro Jr
2. Resolution 09.23.24 Authorized Signatory - Jake Kuper, Assistant Supt of Finance
That the Board of Directors approves the Consent Agenda as submitted.
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Raymond Navarro Jr. Motion carried 4/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Ryan Beckett
3. Resolution 10.23.24 - Designation of Auditing and Investment Officers - Jake Kuper,
Assistant Supt of Finance
That the Board of Directors approves the Consent Agenda as submitted.
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Ryan Beckett. Motion carried 4/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Ryan Beckett
4. Approval to Dispose of Surplus Property - Anthony Murrietta, Asst Supt for Maintenance and
Operations
Approval to Dispose of Surplus Property throughout the 2024-25 school year.
Motion by Ryan Beckett, second by Raymond Navarro Jr. Motion carried 4/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Ryan Beckett
5. Second Opportunity for Comments from the Public - All Other This section can be watched at
1:11:49 time stamp.
Steve McKenna spoke on the budget cuts.
F. EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. Move to Executive Session
No need for an executive session tonight.
I. ADJOURNMENT
1. Adjournment
Vice President Villanueva adjourned at 8:19pm.
H. INFORMATION REPORTS TO THE BOARD
1. Out of State Travel Reports

Graciela Villanueva, Vice President

Trevor Greene, Secretary to the Board

