YAKIMA SCHOOL DISTRICT #7
Business Board Meeting
Tuesday, August 20, 2024; 7:00pm
In-person meeting, live-streamed & recorded (link)
Conference Rooms A & B
  Members present
Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro, Jr. and Ryan Beckett were present. Norm Walker was excused.
  A. CALL TO ORDER
1. Call to Order
Vice President Villanueva called the meeting to order at 7:02pm. Jorge announced he is offering interpretation services.
  2. Pledge of Allegiance
Vice President Villanueva led the board in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  3. Yakama Land Acknowledgement
A video of YSD students reciting the Land Acknowledgement was played.
  4. Moment of Silence to Honor the Memories of Robert "Dr. Bob" Alexander and Leon "Lee" Maras
Vice President Villanueva held a moment of silence.
  B. REPORT TO THE BOARD This section can be watched at 5:21 time stamp.
1. YEA to Address Budget Concerns - Frances Guerrero, YEA President
YEA President Frances Guerrero addressed budget concerns.

C. UPDATES This section can be watched at 13:13 time stamp.
1. Members of the Board Updates
There were no updates at this time.
2. Superintendent's Update
Supt Greene referenced the article from The Yakima Herald Article: Rising costs for Washington school districts outpace state funding, report finds. The link to this article is: https://www.yakimaherald.com/news/local/education/rising-costs-for-washington-school-districts-outpace-state-funding-report-finds/article_690d3198-5a6f-11ef-bfdc-93096909fec5.html

A summary of the League of Education Voters (LEV) 2024 Funding Equity Report was presented, with the full report available on BoardDocs. Director Rice inquired where the community with questions about the report should reach out to. Supt Greene encouraged them to contact the District Office or reach out via Let's Talk.
Today, the district held Special Education 101 training for all teachers, which was well-received. Plans are in place to offer Special Education 102 and 103 training over the next two years.
3. Calendar Updates and Future Agenda Items
Kirsten Fitterer shared important school events and district events which are listed on BoardDocs.
  4. Monthly Financial Update - Jake Kuper This section can be watched at 27:00 time stamp.
Mr. Kuper shared the Monthly Financial Update for July 2024.
  5. Comments from the Public on Agenda Items This section can be watched at 32:13 time stamp.
There were 3 public commenters.
1. A parent of a student at YOL regarding a proposed YOL closure.
2. A parent expressed she is a levy voter and raised budget concerns.
3. Duff DeWitt spoke on the effects of the budget cuts with regards to teachers.
  D. CONSENT AGENDA This section can be watched at 43:24 time stamp..
1. Approval of Consent Agenda
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Ryan Beckett. Final Resolution: Motion carried 4/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Ryan Beckett
  2. Approval of July 2024 Minutes
  3. Notification of Approval of Warrants for July 2024
  4. Approval of Personnel Actions
  5. Approval of Out-of-Endorsement Assignments
  6. Budget Status Reports for July 2024
  8. Interlocal Agreement with ASU and YV-Tech
  10. Approval to purchase Grocery, Cleaning and Paper Supply Purchase during the 2024-25 School Year
  11. Approval to purchase produce during the 2024-25 school year
  12. Approval to Purchase Milk during the 2024-25 school year
  E. APPROVALS This section can be watched at 46:35 time stamp.
1. Resolution 08.23.24 Adopting the 2024-25 Budget - Jake Kuper, Assistant Supt of Finance
Mr. Kuper presented the attached budget presentation, available on BoardDocs. The proposed budget does not show a deficit, and he recommended its approval. Director Rice expressed appreciation for Mr. Kuper and the admin team's efforts.
Director Raymond Navarro, Jr. recused himself from voting on the budget due to a conflict of interest, as a family member may be affected by the proposed reductions.
VP Villanueva asked about community feedback on the budget. The surveys were distributed via Parent Square and Sprout and indicated a predominant opposition to budget reductions. These responses will be compiled for the board's review. During the board retreat, discussions were held with ten departments about their savings goals. The ten presenters will return in January to discuss continued cost savings and provide specific impact numbers. Sharing anticipated savings will help the community understand the administrative departments' initiatives. A key focus for the administration is negotiating and renegotiating vendor contracts to achieve further savings.
That the Board of Directors approves Resolution 08.23.24 - Adopting the 2024-25 Budget as submitted.
  Motion by Martha Rice, second by Ryan Beckett. Motion carried 3/1/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Ryan Beckett
Abstain: Raymond Navarro Jr
  2. Resolution 09.23.24 Authorized Signatory - Jake Kuper, Assistant Supt of Finance
That the Board of Directors approves the Consent Agenda as submitted.
  Motion by Martha Rice, second by Raymond Navarro Jr. Motion carried 4/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Ryan Beckett
  3. Resolution 10.23.24 - Designation of Auditing and Investment Officers - Jake Kuper, Assistant Supt of Finance
That the Board of Directors approves the Consent Agenda as submitted.
  Motion by Martha Rice, second by Ryan Beckett. Motion carried 4/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Ryan Beckett
  4. Approval to Dispose of Surplus Property - Anthony Murrietta, Asst Supt for Maintenance and Operations
Approval to Dispose of Surplus Property throughout the 2024-25 school year.
  Motion by Ryan Beckett, second by Raymond Navarro Jr. Motion carried 4/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Ryan Beckett
  5. Second Opportunity for Comments from the Public - All Other This section can be watched at 1:11:49 time stamp.
Steve McKenna spoke on the budget cuts.
  F. EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. Move to Executive Session
No need for an executive session tonight.
I. ADJOURNMENT
1. Adjournment
Vice President Villanueva adjourned at 8:19pm.
  H. INFORMATION REPORTS TO THE BOARD
1. Out of State Travel Reports
                                                                                                                                                              Graciela Villanueva, Vice President                          Trevor Greene, Secretary to the Board
 