YAKIMA SCHOOL DISTRICT #7
Business Board Meeting
Tuesday, January 16; 7:00pm
Virtual meeting, live-streamed & recorded
Yakima, Washington
      Members present
Norm Walker, Graciela Villanueva, and Martha Rice were present. Raymond Navarro, Jr. and Ryan Beckett were excused.
  A. CALL TO ORDER
1. Interpretation Services
President Walker called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and translation services were offered.
  2. Pledge of Allegiance
President Walker led us in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  3. Yakama Land Acknowledgement
A video of YSD students reciting the Land Acknowledgement was played.
  4. Recognitions
Early High School Diplomas & GED - Principal Lois Menard, Yakima Online and Open Doors
National Technical Honors Society - Mr. Clem See, YV Tech CTE Teacher
Students from all programs being recognized were presented a certificate of congratulations.
5. Proclamations
Vice President Villanueva read the MLK Jr. Day Proclamation. Deputy Stacey Locke read the School Board Recognition Proclamation to honor the school board members.
B. UPDATES
1. Members of the Board Updates
Director Rice reported items that are currently happening in Olympia.
  2. Superintendent's Update
Supt Greene started by sharing his upcoming visit to Olympia to meet with Legislative Representatives.
He shared a summary on the MLK Jr. Peace Walk via photo’s from his Superintendent Greene's LinkedIn. He then talked about the 100th Day of School – this year it is on 2/12/24. He did ask for permission to postpone and have an extension on the board retreat follow-up items.
  3. Monthly Financial Update - Jake Kuper
Mr. Kuper highlighted that enrollment continues to decline, cash is in line with projection, and presented ESSER spending. His presentation is attached to BoardDocs.
  4. Calendar Updates and Future Agenda Topics
There are important school events and district events listed on BoardDocs
  5. Comments from the Public on Agenda Items
There were no public commenters tonight.
  C. CONSENT AGENDA
1. Approval of Consent Agenda
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Final Resolution: Motion carried 3/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Norm Walker
  2. Approval of December 2023 Minutes
  3. Notification of Approval of Warrants for December 2023
  4. Approval of Personnel Actions
  5. Budget Status Reports for December 2023
  6. Approval of 0000 Planning Policies
  D. POLICY GOVERNANCE
1. 1000.3.8 Cost of Governance
Director Rice read this policy. Survey Monkey will be sent tomorrow and due by Jan 22nd  for the Jan 29th meeting.
  2. 1000.3.9 Process for Addressing Board Member Violations
President Walker read this policy. Survey Monkey will be sent tomorrow and due by Jan 22nd  for the Jan 29th meeting.
  3. Second Opportunity for Comments from the Public - All Other
There were no comments at this time.
  E. EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. Move to Executive Session
No need for an executive session tonight.
F. ADJOURNMENT
1. Adjournment
President Walker made a comment to clarify there will be a survey monkey sent for the ENDS Report 1000.1.0 also He adjourned the meeting at 8:03pm.
  G. INFORMATION REPORTS TO THE BOARD
1. Monthly Discipline Report
  2. Enrollment Report
                                                                                                                                                                  Norm Walker, President                                             Trevor Greene, Secretary to the Board
 