YAKIMA SCHOOL DISTRICT #7
Business Board Meeting
Monday, February 26, 2024; 4:00pm
In-person meeting, live-streamed & recorded
Stanton Academy Site Visit
      Members present
Norm Walker, Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro, Jr. and Ryan Beckett were present.
  A. CALL TO ORDER
1. President Walker called the meeting to order at 4:00pm. Nate announced he is offering interpretation services.
  2. Pledge of Allegiance
Stanton student led the board in the Pledge of Allegiance. Another Stanton student read the word of the month: Patience.
  3. Yakama Land Acknowledgement
A video of YSD students reciting the Land Acknowledgement was played.
  B. SCHOOL SITE VISIT REPORT
1. Stanton Academy - Principal Natalie Riley
Principal Riley presented an overview of Stanton Academy's initiatives, particularly highlighting the school's focus on improving student attendance through their school improvement plan. The academy has implemented Tiered Systems of Support. A key program introduced is RISE (Relationships, Integrity, Success, Empathy), which runs five days a week, aiming to enhance student retention by prioritizing their needs and rethinking discipline methods. Stanton Academy offers a diverse curriculum of 35 courses, including financial literacy, photography, and video game design, to keep students engaged. Principal Riley emphasized Stanton’s unique approach, not as serving students who don’t fit into traditional schools, but accommodating all students' needs.
VP Villanueva acknowledged the improvements in attendance and commended Principal Riley's efforts for the students. Director Rice appreciated the concise presentation and the offering of CTE courses, noting that academics serve more as a means to engage students and foster success rather than being the sole focus. Director Navarro, Jr. praised the nontraditional environment of Stanton Academy for allowing students to grow and mentioned his positive experiences with Stanton graduates at YVC. The board left for a tour of the facility at 4:26pm and returned to the main meeting at 5:00pm.

C. UPDATES
1. Members of the Board
Director Rice said there is only two weeks left of legislative session and encouraged her colleagues to review the proposals and to bring up any points for discussion. The legislative session is available from March 11th through April 8th.
2. Superintendent's Update
Supt Greene shared his LinkedIn posts, which included Valentine’s Day celebrations at schools, the announcement of Andrew Espindola named as the new Principal of Franklin Middle School with Principal Sherry Anderson announcing her retirement, the 100th Day of School, a thank you to the voters, Nob Hill Wax Museum, and the opening of Alexandra Lozano law firm in Yakima. Alicia Stromme Tobin, Exec Director of Yakima Safe, was present to recognize Nick Mifflin, Assistant Principal at Washington Middle School, for the wonderful work he is doing on the WAMS Mentoring Program. Principal Heather Hastie explained Davis Booster program. April 12 – 26, 2024, the Yamate Exchange Program will be here in Yakima. We used to be once every three years, but now switched to every other year. We are searching for host families.
3. Calendar Updates and Future Agenda Items
There are important school events and district events listed on BoardDocs.
  4. Comments from the Public on Agenda Items
There were no commenters at this time.
  D. APPROVALS
1. Approval for Board President Walker and Superintendent Greene to travel and attend the Because it affected Norm Walker, he abstained from the vote.
That the Board of Directors grants approval for Norm Walker and Trevor Greene to travel to New Orleans on April 5 - 8, 2024 to attend The Conference for Public Education Leaders sponsored by the National School Board Association (NSBA) in the amount of $7,518.
  Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 4/0/1
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Ryan Beckett
Abstain: Norm Walker
  2. Approval of Yakima Maintenance Association Agreement - Anthony Murrietta
That the Board of Directors approves the agreement between the Yakima Maintenance Association and the Yakima School District.
  Motion by Graciela Villanueva, second by Martha Rice. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
  3. Approval to Raise Encumbrance of the 23-24 SY Contract for Services with The Stepping Stones Group, LLC - Dr. Jenny Rodriquez
That the Board of Directors grants approval to raise the encumbrance with The Stepping Stones Group LLC for the 23-24 school year in the amount of $590,000 to provide Speech and Language services, American Sign Language interpretation, and Para-educator support to students with special needs.
  Motion by Martha Rice, second by Ryan Beckett. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
  4. Second Opportunity for Comments from the Public - All Other
No comments at this time.
E. EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. Move to Executive Session
In accordance with RCW 42.30.110(1)(i), that the Board of Directors, at 5:45p.m., move into executive session for the purpose of current or potential litigation with legal counsel for approximately 15 minutes.
  Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
  At 6:05pm, the board asked for five more minutes in executive session. The board returned to the meeting from an executive session at 6:13pm.

2. Adjournment from Executive Session
Executive Session ended at 6:10pm.
  G. ADJOURNMENT
1. Adjournment
President Walker adjourned at 6:15pm.
                                                                                                                                                              Norm Walker, President                                             Trevor Greene, Secretary to the Board