104 N. FOURTH AVENUE
YAKIMA, WASHINGTON 98902-2636
(509) 573-7000
Website: www.YSD7.org

ACTION ITEM
DATE:

March 12, 2024

TO:

Board of Directors

FROM: Dr. Trevor Greene, Superintendent
RE:

Approval of February 2024 Board Meeting Minutes

Requested Action: That the Board of Directors approves the meeting minutes for the
following Board meetings in the month of January.
February 13th – Business School Board Meeting
February 26th – School Board Meeting – site visit at Stanton Academy
YSD Strategic Plan Alignment: The Board meetings align with all of the strategic
goals throughout the year.
Fiscal Impact: Not applicable.
Background Information: The minutes from the prior month are presented at each
board meeting for approval.

Yakima School District encourages workforce diversity and complies with all state and federal laws prohibiting unlawful discrimination.

YAKIMA SCHOOL DISTRICT #7
Business Board Meeting
Tuesday, February 13, 2024; 7:00pm
Virtual meeting, live-streamed & recorded
Yakima, Washington
Members present
Norm Walker, Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice and Ryan Beckett were present. Raymond
Navarro, Jr. was excused.
A. CALL TO ORDER
1. Call to Order
President Walker called the meeting to order at 7:01pm. Jorge offered interpretation services.

2. Pledge of Allegiance
President Walker led us in the Pledge of Allegiance.

3. Yakama Land Acknowledgement
A video of YSD students reciting the Land Acknowledgement was played.
4. Moment of Silence to Honor the Memory of Barry Woolman
President Walker held a moment of silence for Mr. Barry Woolman.
5. Recognitions
Vice President Villanueva read the recognition for Nation PTA as they celebrate 127 years.
The board members recognized all PTA Booster parents in all Yakima School District schools
with a certificate of appreciation.
6. Proclamations
Director Beckett read the Career and Technical Education Month Proclamation. Director Rice
read the Black History Month Proclamation and President Walker read the School Counseling
Week Proclamation.
B. UPDATES
1. Members of the Board Updates
President Walker stated he would like to attend the NSBA National Conference. Vice President
Villanueva said she attended Discovery Early Learning Center and enjoyed visiting with parents.
She shared some comments from parents. Director Rice reminded the board members that the
legislative session is still going on with March 7th as the last day. There is a lot going on in
Olympia with every deadline.
2. Superintendent's Update
Supt Greene introduced Principal Steve Brownlow who presented his Attendance Parent Group
called The Garfield Great! This group of parents have made a positive impact since 2017 in
attendance at Garfield. Supt Greene shared his LinkedIn posts, which included school site visits
at the Hoover Elementary, Eisenhower High School, Discovery Early Learning Center, and his

visit to Wahluke School District visiting the event called The Amazing Shake, the Heads and
Principals Association Annual Conference, 100th Day of School, and the Superintendent Student
Voice Council event. Supt Greene then shared that Raymond Santana presented at Eisenhower
High School and Downtown Yakima Rotary last week. The old CFAC group reconvened and
moving forward will be called Facilities & Boundary Assessment Committee - addressing the
recommendations on a potential bond moving forward. He gave a legislative update and that is
on BoardDocs.
3. Legislative Proposal Discussion - Director Rice
Director Rice urged the board members to take a more active role in reviewing the proposals for
the General Assembly. She requested feedback on any proposals that should be removed or
added and expressed her intention to finalize the proposal selections by the February 26th board
meeting. She then emphasized the importance of board member participation in finalizing the
proposals for the General Assembly's agenda. She pointed out the WSSDA General Assembly
Handbook 2023, starting on page 21, as a key resource containing all current proposals.
President Walker encouraged board members to participate in the WSSDA's legislative update
session scheduled for Thursday at noon.
4. Calendar Updates and Future Agenda Topics
There are important school events and district events listed on BoardDocs.
5. Monthly Financial Update - Jake Kuper
Jake Kuper, Asst Supt of Finance, shared that enrollment counts continue to decline with smaller
inbound kindergarten classes and larger senior classes graduating. The cash flow and total
expenditures are in-line with the projection. The ESSER III will be drawn down during February
and March when the final invoices are paid out.
6. Comments from the Public on Agenda Items
Phyllis Frank talked about a balanced instructional calendar and expressed her desire for YSD to
implement a more balanced calendar for our students.
C. CONSENT AGENDA
1. Approval of Consent Agenda
Motion by Graciela Villanueva, second by Martha Rice. Motion carried 4/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
2. Approval of January 2024 Minutes
3. Notification of Approval of Warrants for January 2024
4. Approval of Personnel Actions
5. Budget Status Reports for January 2024
D. ACTION
1. Approval of 2024-2025 Instructional School Calendar

President Rice stated her comments on a more balanced calendar. Director Beckett shares we
work off older calendar methods and we need to be very proactive in calendar planning in the
future. President Walker also mentioned state WSSDA legislative proposals, get statewide
energy to work on this.
That the Board of Directors approves the 2024-25 Instructional School Calendar.
Motion by Graciela Villanueva, second by Ryan Beckett. Motion carried 4/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
The meeting was interrupted to announce that the Yakima School District Levy has passed!
2. Bargaining for the Yakima Association of Building Services/Yakima School District
Agreement - Anthony Murrietta
That the Board of Directors approves the agreement between the Yakima Association of
Building Services and the Yakima School District.
Motion by Ryan Beckett, second by Martha Rice. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
3. Second Opportunity for Comments from the Public - All Other
There were no comments at this time.
E. POLICY GOVERNANCE
1. Approval of Policy 1000.1.0 Global ENDS Report
Regarding the one comment on trend data, Supt Greene shared that his team will share data and
bring that forward at a later date, most likely the March Board Retreat. There was no action
taken on this agenda item.
E. EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. Move to Executive Session
In accordance with RCW 42.30.110, that the Board of Directors, at 8:33p.m., move into
executive session for the purpose of current or potential litigation with legal counsel for
approximately 15 minutes.
Motion by Ryan Beckett, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
2. Adjourn from Executive Session
They adjourned from executive session at 8:48pm.
F. ADJOURNMENT
1. Adjournment
President Walker adjourned the meeting at 8:52pm.

G. INFORMATION REPORTS TO THE BOARD
1. Monthly Discipline Report
2. Enrollment Report
Norm Walker, President

Trevor Greene, Secretary to the Board

YAKIMA SCHOOL DISTRICT #7
Business Board Meeting
Monday, February 26, 2024; 4:00pm
In-person meeting, live-streamed & recorded
Stanton Academy Site Visit

Members present
Norm Walker, Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro, Jr. and Ryan Beckett were
present.
A. CALL TO ORDER
1. President Walker called the meeting to order at 4:00pm. Nate announced he is offering
interpretation services.
2. Pledge of Allegiance
Stanton student led the board in the Pledge of Allegiance. Another Stanton student read the word
of the month: Patience.
3. Yakama Land Acknowledgement
A video of YSD students reciting the Land Acknowledgement was played.
B. SCHOOL SITE VISIT REPORT
1. Stanton Academy - Principal Natalie Riley
Principal Riley presented an overview of Stanton Academy's initiatives, particularly highlighting
the school's focus on improving student attendance through their school improvement plan. The
academy has implemented Tiered Systems of Support. A key program introduced is RISE
(Relationships, Integrity, Success, Empathy), which runs five days a week, aiming to enhance
student retention by prioritizing their needs and rethinking discipline methods. Stanton Academy
offers a diverse curriculum of 35 courses, including financial literacy, photography, and video
game design, to keep students engaged. Principal Riley emphasized Stanton’s unique approach,
not as serving students who don’t fit into traditional schools, but accommodating all students'
needs.
VP Villanueva acknowledged the improvements in attendance and commended Principal Riley's
efforts for the students. Director Rice appreciated the concise presentation and the offering of
CTE courses, noting that academics serve more as a means to engage students and foster success
rather than being the sole focus. Director Navarro, Jr. praised the nontraditional environment of
Stanton Academy for allowing students to grow and mentioned his positive experiences with
Stanton graduates at YVC. The board left for a tour of the facility at 4:26pm and returned to the
main meeting at 5:00pm.
C. UPDATES
1. Members of the Board
Director Rice said there is only two weeks left of legislative session and encouraged her
colleagues to review the proposals and to bring up any points for discussion. The legislative
session is available from March 11th through April 8th.

2. Superintendent's Update
Supt Greene shared his LinkedIn posts, which included Valentine’s Day celebrations at schools,
the announcement of Andrew Espindola named as the new Principal of Franklin Middle School
with Principal Sherry Anderson announcing her retirement, the 100th Day of School, a thank you
to the voters, Nob Hill Wax Museum, and the opening of Alexandra Lozano law firm in Yakima.
Alicia Stromme Tobin, Exec Director of Yakima Safe, was present to recognize Nick Mifflin,
Assistant Principal at Washington Middle School, for the wonderful work he is doing on the
WAMS Mentoring Program. Principal Heather Hastie explained Davis Booster program. April
12 – 26, 2024, the Yamate Exchange Program will be here in Yakima. We used to be once every
three years, but now switched to every other year. We are searching for host families.
3. Calendar Updates and Future Agenda Items
There are important school events and district events listed on BoardDocs.
4. Comments from the Public on Agenda Items
There were no commenters at this time.

D. APPROVALS
1. Approval for Board President Walker and Superintendent Greene to travel and attend the
Because it affected Norm Walker, he abstained from the vote.
That the Board of Directors grants approval for Norm Walker and Trevor Greene to travel to
New Orleans on April 5 - 8, 2024 to attend The Conference for Public Education Leaders
sponsored by the National School Board Association (NSBA) in the amount of $7,518.
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 4/0/1
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Ryan Beckett
Abstain: Norm Walker
2. Approval of Yakima Maintenance Association Agreement - Anthony Murrietta
That the Board of Directors approves the agreement between the Yakima Maintenance
Association and the Yakima School District.
Motion by Graciela Villanueva, second by Martha Rice. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
3. Approval to Raise Encumbrance of the 23-24 SY Contract for Services with The Stepping
Stones Group, LLC - Dr. Jenny Rodriquez
That the Board of Directors grants approval to raise the encumbrance with The Stepping Stones
Group LLC for the 23-24 school year in the amount of $590,000 to provide Speech and
Language services, American Sign Language interpretation, and Para-educator support to
students with special needs.
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Ryan Beckett. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
4. Second Opportunity for Comments from the Public - All Other
No comments at this time.

E. EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. Move to Executive Session
In accordance with RCW 42.30.110(1)(i), that the Board of Directors, at 5:45p.m., move into
executive session for the purpose of current or potential litigation with legal counsel for
approximately 15 minutes.
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
At 6:05pm, the board asked for five more minutes in executive session. The board returned to the
meeting from an executive session at 6:13pm.
2. Adjournment from Executive Session
Executive Session ended at 6:10pm.
G. ADJOURNMENT
1. Adjournment
President Walker adjourned at 6:15pm.

Norm Walker, President

Trevor Greene, Secretary to the Board

