YAKIMA SCHOOL DISTRICT #7
Business Board Meeting
Tuesday, July 30, 2024; 7:00pm
In-person meeting, live-streamed & recorded (link)
Conference Rooms A & B
    Members present
Norm Walker, Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice and Ryan Beckett were present. Raymond Navarro, Jr. was excused.
  A. CALL TO ORDER
1. Call to Order
President Walker called the meeting to order at 7:01pm. Jorge announced he is offering interpretation services.
  2. Pledge of Allegiance
President Walker led the board in the Pledge of Allegiance. He then read the Character Word of the month: Enterprise.
  3. Yakama Land Acknowledgement
A video of YSD students reciting the Land Acknowledgement was played.
  4. Moment of Silence to Honor the Memory of Robert Harold "Nick" LeCuyer
President Walker asked for a moment of silence to honor the memory of Robert Harold "Nick" LeCuyer.
  B. PUBLIC HEARING This section can be watched at 6:30 time stamp.
1. Public Hearing - Preliminary Budget 2024-25 Jake Kuper
President Walker gaveled into the preliminary budget at 7:06pm.
  Mr. Kuper shared the attached presentation by suggesting the board not approve the budget due to it being a deficit budget. This is a $3 million deficit. He did state he believes we hit the bottom and believes we are working our way up. He ran through an overview of all funds. He shared the enrollment history for the past 10 years with the classified and certified staff FTE's, the enrollment comparison for the different programs YSD offers (ALE, Running Start and Open Doors), an overview of the Special Education Funding and explained the comparison to the General Fund budgets.
  The board members asked about the strengths of this budget and the plan on getting it adopted before the state required date of August 31. Mr. Kuper will bring back a balanced budget for approval to the August 20th board meeting.
  2. Public Comment on Public Hearing This section can be watched at 59:50 time stamp.
Steve McKenna spoke on the topic of the budget.
  President Walker adjourned the public hearing at 8:03pm.
    C. REPORT TO THE BOARD This section can be watched at 1:04 time stamp.
1. Special Education Services Report to the Board - K.C. Mitchell, Executive Director of Special Education
K.C. Mitchell presented a detailed overview on special education for the 2023-2024 school year. The district served 2,431 students with diverse abilities during this period. Achievement data and departmental goals for future improvement were shared. The complete presentation is uploaded to BoardDocs.
  Regarding Special Ed Compliance, emphasis was placed on Least Restrictive Environment (LRE), with plans to increase inclusion in general education classes, particularly for LRE3 students. Mitchell highlighted three key focus areas for the 2024-2025 school year: IEP Compliance, Speech and Language Services, and one-on-one support.
  The board discussed initiatives to train teachers in behavior management and inclusive practices. Mitchell also outlined the process for Safety Net and reimbursement for Special Ed services.

D. UPDATES This section can be watched at 1:24 time stamp.
1. Members of the Board
Director Rice shared that the Legislative time opens on August 1st for about 10 days and then WSSDA will measure and evaluate the suggestions and see if they can reach resolution on the proposals. The handbook with all proposals is currently in draft form on the WSSDA website. The final handbook will be ready for the General Assembly at the end of September.
  2. Superintendent's Update
Supt Greene shared some items around compliance in addressing the lack of funding. There is a draft article that was shared with the board members. There was a convening of superintendent's together with some UW colleagues.
  The Seattle Times reached out to Supt Greene for an article on the work YSD is doing with safety. He wrote an op-ed article on YSD's Handle With Care Program.
  We have a partnership with the Teacher Access Foundation (TAF) to collaborate with our leadership at no cost to YSD.
  Supt Greene met with Principal Diener and shared the amount of credits YSD students have earned through EWU and CWU in the College in the High School program. This isn't something that comes back to the district financially, however, does help our families in our community. Currently the legislature is paying for the Running Start programs and the College in the High School program. The AA in the HS will provide more students with the opportunity for our students to graduate from HS with an AA while not leaving the school building.
  3. Calendar Updates and Future Agenda Items
Kirsten Fitterer shared important school events and district events which are listed on BoardDocs.
  4. Monthly Financial Update - Jake Kuper
Mr. Kuper, Assistant Supt of Finance, shared the attached presentation on YSD's monthly financial report. June is the low cashflow month in the general fund.
  5. Comments from the Public on Agenda Items
There were no public commenters.
  E. CONSENT AGENDA This section can be watched at 1:44 time stamp.
1. Approval of Consent Agenda
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Ryan Beckett. Final Resolution: Motion carried 4/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
  2. Approval of June 2024 Minutes
  3. Approval of Personnel Actions
  4. Notification of Approval of Warrants for June 2024
  5. Budget Status Reports for June 2024
  F. APPROVALS This section can be watched at 1:45 time stamp.
1. Approval of PSE Agreement - Chris Miller, Director of Human Resources
  2. Approval to Purchase Diesel School Buses - Dr. Trevor Greene, Supt
  3. Petition for Resolution 06.23.24 Emergency Apportionment Advancement - Jake Kuper
  4. Second Opportunity for Comments from the Public - All Other
There were two public commenters.
  G. POLICY GOVERNANCE This section can be watched at 1:58 time stamp.
1. Approval of Policies from June 24, 2024 meeting
  H. EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. Move to Executive Session
No need for an executive session tonight.
I. ADJOURNMENT
1. Adjournment
President Walker adjourned at 6:30pm.
  J. INFORMATION REPORTS TO THE BOARD
1. Monthly Discipline Report for June 2024
2. Out of State Travel Reports
                                                                                                                                                                  Norm Walker, President                                             Trevor Greene, Secretary to the Board