BATTLE GROUND PUBLIC SCHOOLS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
  Regular Meeting
January 22, 2024
6:00 P.M.
  Lewisville Campus
406 NW Fifth Avenue
Battle Ground, WA
  MINUTES
Members present:
Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
  Student representatives present:
Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
  Administrators present:
Superintendent Denny Waters, Deputy Superintendent Shelly Whitten
  Recorder:
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and Board of Directors Sandy U'Ren
  Patrons/Staff: 70
1. Call to Order
President Maddux called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
    2. Pledge of Allegiance
Julia Stiffler led the flag salute.
    3. Roll Call
Sandy U'Ren called the roll of the board members. There was a quorum.
    4. Agenda Approval (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
Director Maddux read the agenda categories out loud. Superintendent Waters asked to remove Item D. under New Business. Mr. Waters explained that Item D. Revision of Policy 6215 Voucher Certification and Approval, will come back to a future board meeting as the description for the policy revision was inaccurate.
  Motion by Mary Snitily, The Board of Directors approve the agenda without Item D. under New Business.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries, 5-0.
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux

  5. Communications
A. Student Voice
Molly Cobb, Tucker Roggencamp, Brice Welter, and Kenadee Butler from Maple Grove Primary School spoke about the things they liked at their school.

Battle Ground High School's Language Arts Teacher & Poetry Out Loud Advisor Heather Smithline introduced Elizabeth McAleer. Miss McAleer won the top prize in Battle Ground High School's Poetry Out Loud competition. Miss McAleer proceeded to recite "All Thirst Quenched" by Lois Red Elk.
  B. Employee Recognition Awards
Director of Human Resources Luke LeCount presented the following staff members with an Employee Recognition Award:
  Mo Levine
Chelsea Ward
Linda Korum
Linda Kincaid
Dennis Ager

The board congratulated the recipients.
  C. Committee Reports
Legislative Committee
Director Snitily provided a legislative committee update. 

Audit Committee Report
There was not an audit committee report.

Battle Ground Education Foundation (BGeF) 
Director Johnson provided a BGeF update.  

Washington Interscholastic Activities Association (WIAA) Committee
There was not a WIAA report.

Washington State School Directors' Association (WSSDA) Updates 
Director Snitily provided a WSSDA update. 

Tours Committee
There was not a tour committee report.
  D. Director Reports
The directors shared about the events that they have recently attended.
    6. Superintendent and Staff Updates
A. Superintendent Report 
Denny Waters provided information on the following topics:
  Facilities update related to the recent snow and ice storm
Changes to the 2023-24 school calendar due to the recent snow days
School board recognition month
  B. Teaching and Learning Report 
There was not a formal teaching and learning report.
  C. Human Resources Report 
Executive Director of Human Resources Michelle Reinhardt provided information about the 2024-25 school calendar under the consent agenda. 
  D. Finance Report 
Chief Financial Officer Michelle Scott presented an enrollment update for November and December 2023.
  E. Operations Report 
There was not an operations report.
  F. Communications Report 
Director of Communications and Community Outreach Amanda Richter presented information regarding the recent media articles, podcasts and upcoming district-wide events.
    7. Citizens' Comments
The following people addressed the board about books they felt should not be in the district's high school libraries:
  Gretchen Verpoorten 
Buffy Spargur 
Victoria Ferrer 
Jennifer Heine-Withee
    8. Consent Agenda (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Approval of Consent Agenda
Director Maddux read the Consent Agenda items out loud. There were no questions or comments from the board members.
  B. Approval of Minutes - January 8, 2024 Board Meeting
C. Personnel Reports - Certificated and Classified
D. Student Travel
E. Financial Reports - November 2023
F. Approval of the 2024-25 School Calendar
  Motion by Terry Tate, The Board of Directors approve the Consent Agenda as presented.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries, 5-0.
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
    9. Old Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
There were no Old Business items.
    10. New Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Approval of New Course Code Intensive Math IC 
Director of Instructional Leadership at the secondary level Travis Drake presented the new course code Intensive Math IC to the board.
  The board members asked clarifying questions.
  Motion by Mary Snitily, The Board of Directors adopt the new course proposal Intensive Math 1C.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries, 5-0.
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
  B. Approval of New Course Code English IV 
Travis Drake presented the new course code English IV to the board.

The board members asked clarifying questions.
  Motion by Terry Tate, The Board of Directors adopt the new course code English IV.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries, 5-0.
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
  C. Revision of Policy 2255 Alternative Learning Experience Programs 
Travis Drake presented the revision of Policy 2255 Alternative Learning Experience Programs to the board. Mr. Drake explained that the revision reflects the addition of Battle Ground Virtual Academy, which was not represented in our policy previously. In addition, there were clarifications around assessments, enrollment, and the burden of communicating to resident school districts if a choice student (out of district) chooses to drop their classes.
  Motion by Ted Champine, The Board of Directors approve the revision of Policy 2255 Alternative Learning Experience Programs.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries, 5-0.
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux

The board members asked clarifying questions.
  D. Revision of Policy 6550 Capitalization Threshold for Lease and Subscription Based Information Technology Arrangements (SBITAs) 
Michelle Scott presented the revision of Policy 6550 Capitalization Threshold for Lease and Subscription Based Information Technology Arrangements (SBITAs). Ms. Scott explained the revision is based on the additional guidance from the state auditor's office.

A board member asked a clarifying question.
  Motion by Mary Snitily, The Board of Directors approve the revision on Policy 6550 Capitalization Threshold for Lease and Subscription Based Information Technology Arrangements (SBITAs).
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries, 5-0.
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
    11. Future Agenda Items and Board Events
Director Maddux reviewed the board's upcoming events.
    12. Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 7:33 p.m.
APPROVED:  FEBRUARY 12, 2024
          BOARD PRESIDENT
  BOARD SECRETARY