BATTLE GROUND PUBLIC SCHOOLS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
  Regular Meeting
November 12, 2024 
6:00 PM
  Lewisville Campus
406 NW Fifth Avenue
Battle Ground, WA 98604
  MINUTES
  Members and Administrators present:
Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux, Denny Waters and Shelly Whitten
  Student Representatives present:
Julia Stiffler, Itzel Contreras Montiel
  Recorder: 
Executive Administrative Assistant to the Superintendent, Carla Barrett
  Staff/Attendees: 44
  1. Call to Order
President Maddux called the meeting to order at 6:00 PM
  2. Pledge of Allegiance
Student Representative Julia Stiffler led the meeting in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  3. Roll Call
Carla Barrett called the roll of the Board.
  4. Agenda Approval (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Agenda Approval
  Student Representatives: Julia Stiffler Pro, Itzel Contreras Montiel Pro.
  Motion by Ted Champine, second by Jackie Maddux
The Board of Directors approve the agenda as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux

  5. Communications
A. Student Voice
Captain Strong Primary School students Ryan Meek, Daphne Johnson, Ozzie Mahoney, Tyler Tarver, Emilia Mata Mancia, and Dixie Stewart spoke about what they like about their schools and the events they do in leadership.  The board asked clarifying questions.
Julia Stiffler, Student Representative, updated the board about RHL events, the "little ASB" class, and district cross country results.
Itzel Montiel Contreras, Student Representative, updated the board about PHS events, the "Trunk-or-Treat" event, and PHS sports.
  D. Committee Reports
No committee reports
   C. Director Reports
Director Snitily spoke about the Veteran's Day assembly at CAM - very well done and very moving
Director Johnson also spoke about the Veteran's Day assembly at CAM and the LMS bazaar - positive comments about both
President Maddux asked the board if there were any questions or clarifications needed regarding the EP&O Levy presentation from the work session on 10.28.24 - board had no questions
President Maddux led the WSSDA annual conference discussion: folders with itineraries and conference agenda given to board members and student reps, agenda reviewed and possible session attendance noted
President Maddux informed the board that they will be honored at the WSSDA President's Dinner as a 2024 Board of Distinction winner
Director Champine informed the board that he cannot attend WSSDA conference 
Superintendent Waters encouraged the board and student reps to download the WSSDA app prior to the conference
  6. Superintendent and Staff Updates
A. Superintendent Report - Denny Waters
Superintendent Waters updated the board regarding the Veteran's Day assemblies throughout the district - no questions from the board. 
  B. Teaching and Learning Report - Shelly Whitten
Deputy Superintendent Whitten asked Executive Director of School Improvement David Kennedy to update the board on the Washington School Improvement Framework Cycle 3:
Connections to the district's Strategic Plan and School Improvement Plans
Upcoming SIP review in December will now include the WSIF tier identification level 
WSIF launched in 2017 as a replacement/improvement for "Every Student Succeeds Act" of 2015, which was a replacement/improvement for "No Child Left Behind Act" of 2002
Shift from punitive accountability to support-based model of accountability proves more successful in changing student outcomes 
Defined what the Levels of Support systems means and how the district provides supports for those tiers
The multi-indicator approach of WSIF tells a more complete picture of school improvement than previous accountability measures like NCLB
Example data for PHS used to illustrate the state threshold concept using state assessment data 
BGPS improved between Cycle 2 (2022) and Cycle 3 (2023) - Less schools needing supports (from 12 to 7) and more schools achieving the Foundational Tier (from 32% to 58%)
Board asked clarifying questions
    C. Human Resources Report - Michelle Reinhardt
No report
  D. Finance Report - Michelle Scott
No report
  E. Operations Report - Kevin Jolma
Executive Director of Operations Jolma updated the board on the following subjects:
New Central Operations building construction on time for Sept 2025 completion
PHS bleacher replacement and CASEE C re-carpet projects completed
District stadium scoreboard project starting 11/15/24
Submitting for BGVA land use approval next week
No questions from the board 
  F. Communications Report - Amanda Richter
Director of Communications and Community Engagement Amanda Richter updated the board on the following subjects:
Annual community report mailing out to 30,000 households this week
RHL water bottle filling station project
"Learn Here Heroes" honorees Karen Guenther (SVHS teacher) and Vivian Zeller (RHL volunteer)
No questions from the board
  7. Citizens' Comments
A. Citizens' Comments
The following citizens addressed the Board of Directors:
Eunice Ingermanson - suicide prevention
*Lorri Sibley - behavior (ran out of comment time)
*Sharon Foster - behavior (deferred comment time to Lorri Sibley to finish her statement)
Sandra Reeder - Freedom Ensemble document idea to promote self-confidence and self-assurance in students
Teresa Taylor - behavior (declined to speak)
Wendy Houser - YPS Holiday Music performance invite
Jennifer Heine-Withee - DEI considerations with CASEL/new SEL curriculum
Jessica Cole - thank you to board for serving
  *Special note - President Maddux allowed deferment of comment time from Sharon Foster to Lorri Sibley, but explained that this is not standard best practice; in the future, each citizen signed up to speak must use only their own allotted time to speak and if a speaker runs out of comment time, another scheduled speaker can continue/finish presenting the same statement if they so choose, using their own allotted time to do so.
  8. Consent Agenda (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Approval of Consent Agenda
B. Approval of Minutes - October 28, 2024 Special Meeting
C. Approval of Minutes - October 28, 2024 Regular Meeting
D. Personnel Reports
E. Student Travel
F. Completed Projects Request for Approval
  Student Representatives: Julia Stiffler Pro, Itzel Contreras Montiel Pro.
  Motion by Mary Snitily, second by Jackie Maddux
The Board of Directors approve the Consent Agenda as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux

10. Old Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
No old business
  11. New Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Revision of Policy 6801 - Capital Assets/Theft-Sensitive Assets - Michelle Scott
Federal guidelines increased purchase threshold from $5,000 to $10,000 on 10/1/24
Policy revision will keep BGPS policy in line with federal recommendations 
No questions from the board
  Student Representatives: Julia Stiffler Pro, Itzel Contreras Montiel Pro.
  Motion by Terry Tate, second by Jackie Maddux
The Board of Directors approve the revision to Policy 6801 - Capital Assets/Theft-Sensitive Assets
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
    B. Revision of Policy 6550 - Capitalization Threshold for Leases and Subscription-Based Information Technology Arrangements (SBITAs) - Michelle Scott
Policy 6550 ties to Policy 6801
Revision of 6801 requires revision to 6550 to stay in alignment
No questions from the board
  Student Representatives: Julia Stiffler Pro, Itzel Contreras Montiel Pro.
  Motion by Terry Tate, second by Jackie Maddux
The Board of Directors approve the revision to Policy 6550 - Capitalization Threshold for Leases and Subscription-Based Information Technology Arrangements (SBITAs)
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
    C. Revision of Policy 6570 - Property and Data Management - Scott McDaniel
Increases threshold for definition of theft-sensitive devices from $300 to $500 due to inflation-related price increases
No questions from the board
  Student Representatives: Julia Stiffler Pro, Itzel Contreras Montiel Pro.
  Motion by Mary Snitily, second by Jackie Maddux
The Board of Directors approve the revision to Policy 6570 - Property and Data Management
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
    D. Revision of Policy 5610 - Substitute Employment - Shelly Whitten
OSPI reporting requirement changes and changes in RCW numbers precipitate policy update
No questions from the board
  Student Representatives: Julia Stiffler Pro, Itzel Contreras Montiel Pro.
  Motion by Mary Snitily, second by Jackie Maddux
The Board of Directors approve the revision to Policy 5610 - Substitute Employment
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
    E. Revision of Policy 5001 - Hiring of Retired School Employees - Shelly Whitten
Senate Bill 6455 requires updates to policy as relates to hiring retirees and TERS 
Board asked clarifying questions
  Student Representatives: Julia Stiffler Pro, Itzel Contreras Montiel Pro.
  Motion by Ted Champine, second by Jackie Maddux
The Board of Directors approve the revision to Policy 5001 - Hiring of Retired School Employees
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
    12. Future Agenda Items and Board Events
A. Future Agenda Items and Board Events
President Maddux went over the board’s upcoming events
  13. Adjournment
A. Adjournment
President Maddux adjourned the meeting at 7:40 PM
  APPROVED: November 25, 2024




  Board President




  Board Secretary
             