BATTLE GROUND PUBLIC SCHOOLS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
  Regular Meeting
October 28, 2024 
6:00 PM
  Lewisville Campus
406 NW Fifth Avenue
Battle Ground, WA 98604
  MINUTES
  Members and Administrators present:
Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux, Denny Waters and Shelly Whitten
  Student Representatives present:
Julia Stiffler, Itzel Contreras Montiel
  Recorder: 
Executive Administrative Assistant to the Superintendent, Carla Barrett
  Staff/Attendees: 45
  1. Call to Order
President Maddux called the meeting to order at 6:00 PM
  2. Pledge of Allegiance
Student Representative Julia Stiffler led the meeting in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  3. Roll Call
Carla Barrett called the roll of the Board.
  4. Agenda Approval (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Agenda Approval
  Student Representatives: Julia Stiffler Pro, Itzel Contreras Montiel Pro.
  Motion by Mary Snitily, The Board of Directors approve the agenda as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux

  5. Communications
A. Student Voice
Tukes Valley Primary School principal April Vonderharr, kindergarten teacher Meadowlark Clark, and students Kade McKeller-Hood, Ethan Halbe, and Lesia Shyshkova updated the board on events happening at their school and led the board in a sample ELA Fundations lesson.  The board asked clarifying questions.
Holly Ihasz, senior at River HomeLink and ASB Vice President, updated the board on the recent assemblies, spirit week, dance, and Fall Carnival events at RHL.
Julia Stiffler, Student Representative, updated the board about BGHS cross country results, middle school sports, and BGHS Homecoming.
Itzel Montiel Contreras, Student Representative, updated the board about PHS sports and PHS ASB activities.
  B. River HomeLink Recognition
River HomeLink is one of 21 schools in WA State to receive the inaugural “School on the Rise” Award from AWSP/AWSL, which honors schools where students and staff work together to elevate school culture, amplify student voices, and foster inclusive and equitable environments. Award presented by Travis Drake, Director of Secondary.  RHL principal Matt Kesler and assistant principal Susan Smith accepted the award, along with invited families, students, and staff.  The board asked clarifying questions.  A group photo was taken by Communications.   
  C. Employee Recognition Awards
Luke LeCount, Director of Human Resources, presented recognition certificates to the following employees, and a group photo was taken by Communications.
Dustin Swain, PVM custodian
Mary Woodard, PVP head secretary
Angela Borges, CAM teacher
Laura Ochoa Salgado, PHS paraeducator
Bonnie Roggenkamp, BGVA counselor
  D. Committee Reports
Legislative Committee
Director Snitily reminded the board to vote (State Board run-off); call to vote emailed by WSSDA on October 28th
  Audit Committee Report
Director Champine and Director Johnson met with the Business Department on October 22nd and all items chosen for review found to be in order; next meeting is November 18th
  Battle Ground Education Foundation (BGeF)
Next meeting is November 21st
  Tours Committee
Pleasant Valley Primary on October 25th (Director Champine did not attend - BYE)
Director Snitily praised the consistency and safety of the new ELA curriculum, particularly in the student-led lessons (as demonstrated tonight by TVP during Student Voice)
Director Tate impressed by the PLC work 
Director Johnson impressed by the 3 new kindergarten classrooms constructed this summer and glad to hear of referrals to Care Solace for mental health services
Student Representative Stiffler also praised the consistency of lessons across grades, particularly for observed kindergarten lessons
Student Representative Contreras Montiel highlighted the obvious parent involvement and strong sense of community at PVP
President Maddux praised the passion and commitment of admin and staff
No tour in November, next tour is December 6th (Director Tate has BYE)
   C. Director Reports
Director Johnson reported on the SEL Curriculum committee process - very time-consuming and appreciates work of Tamra Scheetz and Erick Suksdorf
Director Snitily requested information regarding upcoming Veteran’s Day assemblies at schools - information will be gathered/sent
President Maddux reminded board that they will be selecting their WSSDA Conference sessions at November 12th meeting (WSSDA still finalizing agenda); Department of Natural Resources meeting on November 5th regarding potential North County Timber sale if interested in learning more


  6. Superintendent and Staff Updates
A. Superintendent Report - Denny Waters
Superintendent Waters updated the board on the following subjects:
Potential chickenpox outbreaks at RHL and MGP campuses; situation being closely monitored by Clark County Department of Health; potential for exclusion of unvaccinated students or staff for 21 days if directed by CCDoH
Success of PTO Autumn Festival at Tukes Valley - great turnout, lots of fun
October is Principal Appreciation Month - recognition of hard work/dedication of the principals and assistant principals of BGPS
No questions from the board
  B. Teaching and Learning Report - Shelly Whitten
Deputy Superintendent Whitten updated the board on the following subjects:
Fall Festival at YPS on October 29th
Staff Waiver Day on October 30th - continued PLC and team self-assessment work
Revision of Procedure 2021 - Library Information and Technology Programs
Review survey results to assess scope of concerns - 2250 survey participants, 69% of participants felt that BGPS is already providing sufficient controls regarding library information/challenged books
Assess process for choosing books - multiple meetings with teacher librarians that reviewed procedures across the state and local districts to ensure consistency and include best practices from American Library Association; added parent resources such as professional reviews of books and companies like Common Sense Media to review/screen book content 
Changes to the IMC (Instructional Materials Committee) - as a direct result of procedure revision adding additional members to IMC will increase operating costs (purchasing book copies, pay for teachers to attend meetings/read materials that are being reviewed)
Informing parents/guardians - many resources added to BGPS district website for parents to research library book content; annual notifications regarding library policy access will be sent at beginning of each school year 
Processes for informing parents of the books their child checks and for parents to restrict/block books for their own children being explored when district migrates to new Qmlativ system for 2025-2026 school year 
Board asked clarifying questions 
  C. Human Resources Report - Michelle Reinhardt
No report
  D. Finance Report - Michelle Scott
Chief Financial Officer Michelle Scott updated the board on the following subjects:
Legislative priorities released by WASBO - MSOCs, special education, transportation costs, substitute costs
Student enrollment update - district total enrollment currently above budget predictions by 137 FTE; significant increases in Multilingual Learners and special education programs 
No questions from the board
  E. Operations Report - Kevin Jolma
Executive Director of Operations Jolma updated the board on the following subjects:
New Central Operations building construction - broke ground, estimated completion September 2025
Recarpet of CASEE C almost completed
BGVA and district stadium scoreboard updates
No questions from the board 
  F. Communications Report - Amanda Richter
Director of Communications and Community Engagement Amanda Richter updated the board on the following subjects:
The Columbian featured Eric Anderson’s 4th grade class at MGP for the Great Shakeout Earthquake Safety Drill on October 17th 
ASPIRE (Highly Capable) program testing referral window open until December 6th
BGHS student athletes visited CSP for start of reading session partnership program
High school students attended new Dozer Days Career Fair
Hispanic Heritage Month celebrations at BGHS and PHS
No questions from the board
  8. Citizens' Comments
A. Citizens' Comments
The following citizens addressed the Board of Directors:
Marissa Lee - Smaller class sizes/North County High School
Karl Miller - CASEL
Wynn Greich - Harmful chemicals in water
Alex Gardner - SEL
Tyler Long - SEL
Jeshaiah Green - SEL
Lesley Pulse - Zero tolerance policy regarding violence in schools
Jennifer Heine-Withee - Library policy updates
Jessica Cole - No YMCA for Battle Ground per City Council
  9. Consent Agenda (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Approval of Consent Agenda
B. Approval of Minutes - October 14, 2024 Regular Board Meeting
C. Business and Operations
D. Personnel Reports
E. Student Travel
F. Completed Projects Request for Approval
G. Print Shop equipment lease with Konica Minolta
H. Amergis Healthcare Staffing contract amendment
I. Approval of the Carl Perkins Grant for CTE Programs
J. Approval of the School Support Organizations for the 2024-2025 school year
  Student Representatives: Julia Stiffler Pro, Itzel Contreras Montiel Pro.
  Motion by Ted Champine, the Board of Directors approve the Consent Agenda as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux

10. Old Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
No old business
  11. New Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
No new business
  12. Future Agenda Items and Board Events
A. Future Agenda Items and Board Events
President Maddux went over the board’s upcoming events
  13. Adjournment
A. Adjournment
President Maddux adjourned the meeting at 8:24 PM
  APPROVED: November 12, 2024




  Board President




  Board Secretary
 