BATTLE GROUND PUBLIC SCHOOLS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
  Special Meeting - Work Session
March 11, 2024
4:30 P.M.
  Lewisville Campus
406 NW Fifth Avenue
Battle Ground, WA
  MINUTES
Members present:
Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
  Member excused:
Ted Champine
  Student representatives present:
Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
  Administrators present:
Superintendent Denny Waters, Deputy Superintendent Shelly Whitten
  Recorder:
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and Board of Directors Sandy U'Ren
  Staff/Patrons: 15
1. Call to Order
President Maddux called the meeting to order at 4:30 p.m.
    2. Work Session
A. 2024-25 Budget Discussion 
Denny Waters stated that there has been discussion over the past few years about reaching a fiscal cliff with the ending of Elementary and Secondary School Emergency Relief (ESSER) funds. Mr. Waters also announced that there would be a reduction in Title I funding. With the loss of those two funding sources, the district is looking at a $8.5M shortage in funding. Mr. Waters stated that as of this work session, we would like to explore the possibility of accessing the funds balance to minimize cuts.

Chief Financial Officer Michelle Scott provided information on the budget challenges for the 2024-25 school year.
  Denny Waters reviewed and highlighted specific items in the district's Policy 6020 Fund Balance.

Shelly Whitten distributed a handout and led a discussion on local district's fund balance Policy 6022; the district's minimum fund balances from 2016-2024; and comparing reductions.

Mr. Waters discussed the possibility of accessing 1% from the unassigned fund balance to reduce the district's budget shortage.

The floor was open for discussion.

The board members discussed the pros and cons on accessing the unassigned fund balance.

Following the discussion, the board members were in consensus on using the 1% of the unassigned fund balance.
    3. Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 5:29 p.m.
APPROVED:  MARCH 25, 2024
          BOARD PRESIDENT
  BOARD SECRETARY
   