Docusign Envelope ID: 1E39FC64-CA37-4060-9ECD-989E45E4294C
7/16/24, 11:57 AM

BoardDocs® Pro

BATTLE GROUND PUBLIC SCHOOLS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Regular Board Meeting
April 8, 2024
6:00 P.M.
Lewisville Campus
406 NE Fifth Avenue
Battle Ground, WA

MINUTES
Members present:
Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
Members excused:
Ted Champine
Student reprsentatives present:
Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Administrators present:
Superintendent Denny Waters, Deputy Superintendent Shelly Whitten
Recorder:
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and Board of Directors Lisa Randle
Patrons/Staff: 13
1. Call to Order
President Jackie Maddux called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
2. Pledge of Allegiance
Julie Stffler led the flag salute
3. Roll Call
Lisa Randle called the board members' names and districts. She noted that Director Champine had a pre-arranged absence.
There was a quorum.
Motion by Terry Tate, Madam President, I move that we excuse Ted Champine from the meeting
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
4. Agenda Approval (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
President Maddux read the agenda categories out loud. There were no comments or questions from the board members.
Motion by Mary Snitily, The Board of Directors approves the agenda as presented
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
5. Communications
A. Student Voice
Student Representative Julia Stiffler updated the board about upcoming events at River HomeLink. She also listed BGHS
&
PHS students and their events who placed in the State track tournament.
Student Representative Sora Tolley provided on current and upcoming events at Battle Ground High School.
B. Committee Reports
Legislative Committee
Vice President Snitily updated the Board that she filed the amended positions with WSSDA.
Audit
There was no audit report
Battle Ground Education Foundation (BGeF)
Director Johnson reported on the March meeting because she was absent from the March 25 Board meeting

https://go.boarddocs.com/wa/bgps/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#

1/3

Docusign Envelope ID: 1E39FC64-CA37-4060-9ECD-989E45E4294C
7/16/24, 11:57 AM

BoardDocs® Pro

Washington Interscholastic Activities Association (WIAA)
There was not a WIAA report
Washington State School Directors' Association (WSSDA)
Director Snitily reminded the Board members to open their emails from WSSDA because the information is more current
Tours Committee
Director Tate and Student Representative Julia Stiffler provided highlights of the tour of Tukes Valley Primary.
C. Director Reports
Vice President Snitily reminded all the board members to submit their F1 paperwork by the 15th of April.
Director Johnson shared that she attended the Culture Proficiency seminar with WSSDA.
President Maddux shared she attended the Freight Rail Dependent Use (FRDU) meeting on Saturday, April 6.
Self Evaluation Goals were discussed
6. Superintendent and Staff Updates
A. Superintendent Report - Denny Waters
Superintendent Waters was contacted by the Sheriff's office to report that they may have an SRO for the Prairie High
School Campus, 24-25
school year. this would cost approximately $90,000.00.
B. Teaching and Learning Report - Shelly Whitten
There was no Teaching and Learning report.
C. Human Resources Report - Michelle Reinhardt
There was not a Human Resources update given.

Audit

D. Finance Report - Michelle Scott
Michelle Scott updated the Board on Policy 6215 they approved at the previous board meeting that the Charter of the
Committee was uploaded as 6215E as the Board requested.
E. Operations Report - Kevin Jolma
There was no Operations report.

two

F. Communications Report - Amanda Richter
Amanda shared about the ESD 112 Annual Art Show that was held recently, eight BGPS students won awards including

top winners from River HomeLink, Sophie Marvin, and Emily Ackerman these two students will represent the region at
the state art
show in May. Also, she mentioned BG Case episode 32 which is on Social Emotional Learning.
7. Citizens' Comments
There were no Citizens' comments
8. Consent Agenda (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Approval of Consent Agenda
President Maddux read the Consent Agenda items out loud. There were no questions or comments from the board
members.
B. Approval of Minutes - March 25, 2024 Special Board Meeting
C. Approval of Minutes - March 25, 2024 Regular Board Meeting
D. Business and Operations
E. Personnel Reports
F. Student Travel
G. Completed Projects Request for Approval
H. Approval of donation by The Community Foundation Patrick Hough Endowment Fund
Motion by Mary Snitily, The Board of Directors approves the Consent Agenda as presented.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro, Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
9. Old Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
There were no Old Business items.
10. New Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. First Reading: Curriculum proposal for Middle School Science, Grades 6-8
David Cresap shared the committee's core belief statement, adoption committee members' names, a list of review
events
for Parents & Community, survey responses, and the budget for the adoption with the Board.
https://go.boarddocs.com/wa/bgps/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#

2/3

Docusign Envelope ID: 1E39FC64-CA37-4060-9ECD-989E45E4294C
7/16/24, 11:57 AM

BoardDocs® Pro

The board members asked clarifying questions.
Motion by Terry Tate, The Board of Directors accepts the first reading of the recommended
curriculum for 6-8 Science Amplify Science, Copyright 2022.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro, Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
B. First Reading of High School Social Studies Curriculum
Allison Tuchardt shared the committee's core belief statement, adoption committee members' names, a list of multiple
recommendations, events for Parents & Community, survey responses, and the budget for the adoption with the Board.
The board members asked clarifying questions.
curriculum

Motion by Mary Snitily, The Board of Directors accepts the first reading of the recommended
for the following high school social studies courses as presented.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro, Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux

C. Approve Evaluator (The Osborne Collaborative) for AWARE Grant
Superintendent Waters presented The Osborne Collaborative scoring 100% as one of eight evaluators that applied to
evaluate the district for the AWARE grant.
The board members asked clarifying questions.
Motion by Mary Snitily, The Board of Directors approves the contract between Battle Ground Public
Schools and The Osborne Collaborative.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro, Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux

health
Solace

D. Approval of Contract for Care Solace (AWARE)
Superintendent Waters presented that one of the district goals with the AWARE grant is to improve access to mental
services for our students and schools. Our mental health care system is complex and complicated to navigate. Care
will help parents to connect to the mental health services network.
The board members asked clarifying questions.
Motion by Terry Tate, The Board of Directors approves the contract with Care Solace using the AWARE
Grant funds.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro, Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux

11. Future Agenda Items and Board Events
President Maddux went over the board events calendar.
12. Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 7:39 p.m.

APPROVED: APRIL 22, 2024

BOARD PRESIDENT

BOARD SECRETARY

https://go.boarddocs.com/wa/bgps/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#

3/3

