BATTLE GROUND PUBLIC SCHOOLS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
  Regular Meeting
August 26, 2024 
6:00 PM
  Lewisville Campus
406 NW Fifth Avenue
Battle Ground, WA 98604
  MINUTES
  Members and Administrators present:
Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux, Denny Waters and Shelly Whitten
  Student Representatives present:
Julia Stiffler
  Student Representative not present:
Itzel Contreras Montiel had a prearranged absence.
  Recorder: 
Executive Administrative Assistant to the Superintendent, Lisa Randle
  Staff/Attendees: 40
  1. Call to Order
President Maddux called the meeting to order at 6:00 PM
  2. Pledge of Allegiance
Student Representative Julia Stiffler led the meeting in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  3. Roll Call
Lisa Randle called the roll of the Board and noted Itzel had a prearranged absence.
  Motion by Ted Champine, Madam President, I move that we excuse Itzel Contreras Montiel from the meeting.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux

4. Agenda Approval (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Agenda Approval
  Student Representatives: Julia Stiffler Pro
  Motion by Ted Champine, The Board of Directors approve the agenda as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux

5. Communications
A. Committee Reports
Legislative Committee
Vice President Snitily updated the board on the upcoming General Assembly.
  Audit Committee Report
No report
  Battle Ground Education Foundation (BGeF)
Directors Tate gave updates on upcoming events. 
  Washington Interscholastic Activities Association (WIAA) Committee
BGPS is no longer the regional board member at these meetings.  Denny will update the board when he receives information from Tom Adams, Director of Student Services.
  Washington State School Directors' Association (WSSDA) Updates 
Director Snitily shared the district committee or state-wide office elections need to be filed by September 16.
  B. Director Reports
Julia reported fall sports have started. 
President Maddux reported on a meeting she, Denny Waters, Kevin Jolma, and the BG City Managers had to discuss some proposed roads they would like to build.  Jackie has requested a meet and greet with the board so answers can be answered.
The new Board Tour Schedule was handed out. 
President Maddux would like to discuss Board Topics for Work Sessions at the next meeting. Jackie will send the document to the board.
  6. Superintendent and Staff Updates
A. Superintendent Report - Denny Waters
Superintendent discussed
First Day of School
Initial projections for K-8 grades are above 146 students projected
New Teacher Orientation with 50 new certificated staff
Procedure 2120 Progress 
Department of Natural Resources timber sale
  B. Teaching and Learning Report - Shelly Whitten
Mike Michaud gave a presentation on the district's Administrative Mentorship Program.
  C. Human Resources Report - Michelle Reinhardt
Director Reinhardt brought Item G on the Consent Agenda to their attention and explained the salary schedule process.
  D. Finance Report - Michelle Scott
No report given
  E. Operations Report - Kevin Jolma
Kevin Jolma gave updates on the following
Pleasant Valley Primary's new classrooms
Energy Use Audit 
Why do some projects have change orders on the Completed Project list
    F. Communications Report - Amanda Richter
Director Richter shared some upcoming and past events.
    7. Citizens' Comments
A. Citizens' Comments
  Wynn Grcich asks the district to provide water filters in our schools
Jessica Gardner referenced Policy 3210
Jeshaiah Green referenced Policy 3210
Tyler Long referenced Policies 2121, 3210
Jennifer Heine-Withee referenced Policy 3210
Eunice Ingermanson referenced Vector Training
Jessica Cole referenced the DREAM Team - Pickle Ball Fundraiser for Battle Ground Alliance

8. Consent Agenda (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Approval of Consent Agenda
  Student Representatives: Julia Stiffler Pro
  Motion by Terry Tate, The Board of Directors approve the Consent Agenda as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux

  B. Approval of Minutes - August 12, 2024 Regular Board Meeting
C. Approval of Minutes - August 12, 2024 - Special Board Meeting
D. Financial Reports
E. Personnel Reports
F. Completed Projects Request for Approval
G. Approval of the Proposed PSE Salary Schedule
  9. Old Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
  10. Recess
A recess was called at 7:18 PM
  11. Budget Hearing
A. Budget Hearing - Michelle Scott
The Budget Hearing began at 7:24 PM and ended at 8:17 PM
  Michelle Scott gave a presentation on the 2024-2025 budget that is being proposed for Board approval.

Jennifer Heine-Withee asked clarifying questions about the budget.
  12. Call to Order
The regular board meeting was called back to order at 8:17 PM
    13. New Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Approval of Resolution E-24 Adoption of the 2024-2025 Budget - Michelle Scott
  Student Representatives: Julia Stiffler Pro
  Motion by Terry Tate, The Board of Directors approve resolution E-24 Adoption of the 2024-2025 Budget.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux

B. Approval of the Request for Proposal SEL Curriculum - Tamra Scheetz
  Student Representatives: Julia Stiffler Pro
  Motion by Jackie Maddux, The Board of Directors approve the RFP for the SEL Curriculum.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux

C. Approval of the Request for Proposal - K-8 Universal Screener - Tamra Scheetz
  Student Representatives: Julia Stiffler Pro
  Motion by Mary Snitily, The Board of Directors approve the RFP for the K-8 Universal Screener.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
  14. Future Agenda Items and Board Events
A. Future Agenda Items and Board Events
  15. Executive Session
A. Personnel - RCW 42.30.110 (1)(g) - No Action
Starting at 8:45 PM for twenty minutes
9:05 PM extended for five more minutes
9:10 PM returned no action
  16. Adjournment
A. Adjournment
The meeting was adjournment at 9:10 PM
    APPROVED: SEPTEMBER 9, 2024
      Board President
      Board Secretary
 