Levy information for BGPS Skip to content Skyward Jobs Fees & fines Staff portal Contact us Battle Ground Public Schools - Battle Ground Public Schools District Finance Educational levy Replacement education and operations levy Vote by Feb. 11, 2025 If approved, the proposed levy would replace the expiring education and operations levy, which ends in December 2025. The replacement levy would start in January 2026. The levy would provide funding for programs and services that affect students in every BGPS school. Questions? Please email communication@battlegroundps.org. Calculator Presentations FAQs What is the estimated cost* for me? This levy calculator will add up the estimated local tax rate for 2024-2027, increasing the property value 3.5% each year. Local school tax calculator Local school tax calculator Enter your property's assessed value to calculate your local school taxes: Property assessed value: CALCULATE Year Assessed value (adjusted by 3.5% each year) Education and operations levy Capital levy Total annual local school tax Total monthly local school tax *The tax rates used in this calculator reflect the local school tax rates for property owners in Battle Ground Public Schools. State school taxes are not reflected. Future tax rates are estimates. The tax amount from this page is an estimate and not an official quote or tax record. The capital levy begins in 2025 and ends after 2027. If approved, the replacement education and operations levy would begin in 2026. Assessed values are set by the Clark County assessor's office and may differ from market value. ( Find the assessed value of your property. ) Some seniors and disabled homeowners may be eligible for a property tax exemption based on income. See a detailed breakdown of local and state school taxes. What do levies pay for? Levy dollars make up the difference between what the state provides for basic K-12 education and what it costs to educate students and operate schools. How can I learn about this levy? Attend a presentation to learn about the levy and ask questions. All presentations are open to the public. Childcare and light refreshments will be provided at each presentation. Parents/guardians should bring an ID in order to access childcare. In the event of a weather-related school closure, the presentation will be canceled. However, anyone may attend a different presentation. Si necesita servicios de interpretaci n en espa ol, env e un correo electr nico a spanish.support@battlegroundps.org al menos cinco d as antes de la presentaci n. , , russian.support@battlegroundps.org . Date Time Location Monday, Jan. 6 5:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. River HomeLink Tuesday, Jan. 7 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. Tukes Valley Primary Wednesday, Jan. 8 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. Prairie High School Tuesday, Jan. 14 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. Laurin Middle School Tuesday, Jan. 14 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. Daybreak campus Tuesday, Jan. 14 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. Pleasant Valley campus Thursday, Jan. 16 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. Yacolt Primary School Thursday, Jan. 16 6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. Chief Umtuch Middle School Tuesday, Jan. 21 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. Battle Ground High School Frequently asked questions Would this tax be added to the current educations and operations levy? When did voters last approve this levy? What is the estimated rate? How much would the levy collect? Why is the district asking for this amount? What if the levy is not approved? Does the state fully fund education? Would the levy pay for unfunded and under-funded state requirements? How would the district account for the use of levy dollars? Is there tax relief for people on a fixed income? What would the levy pay for? What is the difference between a levy and a bond measure? Address: 11104 N.E. 149th St., Brush Prairie, WA 98606 Shipping & receiving for all locations: 400 N. Parkway Ave., Battle Ground, WA 98604 Mailing address: P.O. Box 200 Battle Ground, WA 98604 Phone: 360-885-5300 Notice of nondiscrimination, accessibility and privacy Visit the Safety Study Hall website, a place for schools, students and families to learn about safety topics. Stay Connected Copyright 2024 Battle Ground Public Schools. All rights reserved. Powered By Apptegy Visit us to learn more