Blaine School District No. 503
  Regular Board Meeting
Monday, January 23, 2023
  Minutes
  1. Regular Board Meeting
A. Call to Order
President Thomas called the meeting to order, in the district boardroom, at 7:00 p.m.

All directors were in attendance.
     Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  B. Pledge of Allegiance
President Thomas led in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  C. Board Comments on the Agenda
There were no comments on the agenda.
  2. Good News
A. Thank You School Board!
Superintendent Dr. Christopher Granger shared his appreciation for Blaine's Board of Directors which consistently strives to provide an environment where each student can learn and achieve at the highest level possible. President Thomas expressed appreciation on behalf of the board to Terre Shapiro and her Blaine Primary School students for the book and cookies that were provided in honor of Board Appreciation Month.
  3. Public Comment
A. Public Comment
The following individuals addressed the board regarding topics of concern:
Allison Traff, a Blaine High School staff member, described the experience of having her request to work remote denied. She complained that District Office employees are allowed to work remote, and she described her feelings of being treated unfairly.
Natalie Chavez shared multiple stories of coaches and athletes who have suddenly died after having received the "experimental COVID vaccine". She asked the district to provide resources (e.g. AEDs) to be prepared for similar medical emergencies that could happen on Blaine's campus.
After the individuals who signed up to speak were finished, Dean Berkeley announced from the audience that he was unaware of the requirement to sign up for Public Comment. President Thomas and Directors Leu and Gibson voiced support for adhering to board policy on this matter. Director Creydt expressed a willingness to allow an exception to the board's policy, and continued discussion on the matter became contentious. In order to move on with the meeting in an orderly manner, President Thomas allowed Mr. Berkeley to speak.
  Dean Berkeley commented on his son's struggles in school. His son is extremely talented in mechanical areas. Mr. Berkeley questioned the educational opportunities outside of academics being provided to students who are mechanically talented, suggesting that they should have opportunities similar to those of academic high achievers.
  4. Reports
A. School Administrator Monthly Reports
Each school administrator reviewed their monthly report to the board.
Blaine Primary School: Michelle McKeown reported and added the story of an impromptu seagull rescue witnessed recently by students. Discussion followed regarding the grant written by Ethan Sherran, the bird rescued by a Facilities staff member, and the recent Reading Walkthroughs.
Blaine Elementary School: Jordan Radke reported and discussion followed regarding the MLK Jr. assembly, the 1000 positive messages goal, and mid-year reports expected in February.
Blaine Middle School: Darren Benson reported and discussion followed regarding the Strengthening Families Program.
Blaine High School: Scott Ellis reported and discussion followed regarding AVID.
  B. Enrollment Update
Executive Director of Finance and Operations Amber Porter reported on enrollment through the month of January which is similar to the start of the year in September.
  C. Budget Status and Financial Report
Amber Porter provided a report on revenue and expenses through the month of December which was typical and included a debt service payment. Ms. Porter explained adjustments made to the written report in an effort to give more of a dashboard review of the financial status. Discussion followed regarding how this year's expenses compare to last year. Ms. Porter reminded the board that the district significantly slowed expenditures last year in anticipation of upcoming financial uncertainties. Director Creydt asked for an explanation of how ESSER funds have been allocated and discussion continued. Ms. Porter expressed uncertainty regarding future ESSER payments due to the federal government having hit the debt ceiling.

Ms. Porter also provided a summary of the 2023-2024 Budget Planning Timeline and an explanation of the board's role in that process. President Thomas asked about the rationale for budget adoption in July rather than August. Ms. Porter explained that the district has done it both ways, and the preference is to have the process completed sooner than later. Director Leu asked about the timing of a reduced education program plan at the board's April meeting prior to the end of the legislative session when the board will not yet have all of the facts, and discussion followed.
  Director Creydt asked who has oversight of the district's grant writing. Ms. Porter described the process for staff to explore the need for grants and opportunities for assistance with the application process, overseen by district level staff.
  D. Superintendent's Report
Dr. Christopher Granger provided an update which included information on the following topics.
School Board Appreciation: Dr. Granger expressed his gratitude for the service of the directors, as well as for the two applicants who were interviewed in the previous meeting.
Cabinet Level Professional Achievements: Dr. Granger described the professional achievements of the district's cabinet level leaders and expressed his appreciation for their commitment to modeling leadership in professional development.
Upcoming Committee Work: The Facility Review Committee is considering the critical needs that should be placed before voters in the district's next bond/levy initiative. A Superintendent Advisory Committee is being established for initial parent consideration of topics before reaching out to all families. The Equity Committee's work is ongoing to ensure program growth in this area.
Vaping Lawsuit: A settlement has been reached. At a future meeting, the board will consider a resolution to accept the terms.
Director Creydt interjected and asked about progress on securing property in Birch Bay for a future school site. Dr. Granger assured her that the district is making progress in that endeavor. As previously discussed, the president and vice-president are updated regularly, and a report will be provided to the full board at a future meeting.
  Legislative Update:
SB 5059: Dr. Granger explained the negative impact this bill would have on schools related to a new form of interest on tort/injury awards.
SB 5020: This earlier age requirement for school age children would positively impact early learning.
SB 5257: Additional information is needed to ascertain the impact of this proposal for required recess time.
Pt. Roberts Primary School and HomeConnection: Updates on 2023-2024 planning for these programs will be provided by Dawn Cottnair at a future meeting.
Kindergarten Registration: Dr. Granger described a countywide initiative for a common kindergarten registration date in all county school districts.
School Climate: The CEE survey has gone out to staff and parents for input on school climate.

Director Creydt asked for more detail about the role of the Superintendent Advisory Committee. Dr. Granger explained the intent to review various topics with a small group of parents to identify those topics that should be expanded to a survey of all families or the community.

Director Gibson asked for additional information regarding Amber Porter's Certified School Business Administrator credential, and discussion followed.

Director Creydt asked about blocked exits and safety concerns that were brought to her attention in an email. Dr. Granger asked Ms. Creydt to forward that email to him so that he could address it.
  5. Consent Agenda
The board approved all items listed on the Consent Agenda. President Thomas declared the 4-0 vote.
  A. Approval of Minutes - December 13, 2022 Regular Board Meeting
The board approved the minutes of the December 13, 2022 Regular Board Meeting.
Motion by Erika Creydt, second by Dougal Thomas
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Yea: Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  B. Financial Matters
The board approved Financial Matters as detailed on the Consent Agenda, including Resolution 2223-05.
Motion by Erika Creydt, second by Dougal Thomas
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Yea: Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  C. Personnel Matters
The board approved the recommended Personnel Matters.
Motion by Erika Creydt, second by Dougal Thomas
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Yea: Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  D. Student Travel
The board approved the following Student Travel requests:
HS Choir to All State in Bellevue, WA (Feb. 17-19)
MS Science Field Trip on Plover Ferry (Mar. 15,16,17)
HS Golf Team to Wenatchee, WA (Mar. 26-27)
HS Golf Team to Yakima, WA (Mar. 30-31)
Motion by Erika Creydt, second by Dougal Thomas
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Yea: Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  E. 2023-24 BHS CTE Locally Approved Graduation Pathways
The board approved the recommended Local CTE Graduation Pathways for Blaine High School.
Motion by Erika Creydt, second by Dougal Thomas
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Yea: Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  Director Gibson asked about the many warrants payable to Blaine School District which were canceled in Resolution 2223-05. Ms. Porter explained how this was related to the protocol for setting aside funds during capital projects.
  6. Action Items
A. Updated 2022-2023 Board Meeting Calendar
The board approved an update to the Board Meeting Calendar, moving June's regular meeting to Tuesday, June 20, 2023 in order to allow the district's administrators to attend the annual WASA conference. President Thomas declared the 4-0 vote.
Motion by Don Leu, second by Charles E Gibson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Yea: Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  7. Board Comments and Future Meeting(s)
A. General Comments
There were no additional comments.
  B. Future Meeting(s) and Agenda Suggestions
A School Improvement Plan mid-year work session is scheduled at 5:00 p.m. on Monday, February 27, 2023 followed by the regular board meeting at 7:00 p.m.

Suggestions for agenda items include:
High School Student Report
School Administrator Monthly Reports
Enrollment Update and Financial Report
Superintendent's Report
Policy Updates
  8. Executive Session
A. Executive Session
There was no executive session during this meeting.
  9. Adjourn
A. Adjourn
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned by a unanimous vote at 8:14 p.m.
Motion by Charles E Gibson, second by Dougal Thomas
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Yea: Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
    DATE MINUTES APPROVED: February 27, 2023
   
                         ________________________________                            ________________________________
                                      BOARD PRESIDENT                                                               SECRETARY/CLERK