Blaine School District No. 503
  Regular Board Meeting
Monday, May 22, 2023
  Minutes
  1. Regular Board Meeting
A. Call to Order
President Thomas called the meeting to order, in the district boardroom, at 7:00 p.m.
All directors were in attendance.
     Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  B. Pledge of Allegiance
President Thomas led in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  C. Board Comments on the Agenda
President Thomas shared comments clarifying the purpose of the board's meeting, and he suggested more effective ways for patrons to have dialogue and get answers to questions. He offered clarity on why the board's business meeting isn't a venue for interaction with the public, and he assured the audience that we're all in this together.
  2. Good News
A. High School Student Report
Students representing Blaine High School's Link Crew attended the meeting to share information about their group's purpose and activities. To help build a strong community within the high school, juniors and seniors in Link Crew serve as mentors to incoming freshmen students. Activities include training for Link Crew members in the spring to prepare for Freshman Orientation activities in the fall. Link Crew members follow up with freshmen throughout the year and offer additional activities to help them have a great experience as new high school students. The group's diverse leadership is reflective of the diversity of the students they serve.
  B. High School ASB Year-End Report
Blaine High School's ASB Executive President Sabrina Boczek presented a review of the 2022-2023 school year. The ASB did more this year than last year, including activities, events, games, shirts, etc. Old traditions were brought back, and new traditions were initiated. Miss Boczek shared the names of next year's ASB officers, including the Inter-High Rep, Hannah Phelps-McDonald, who was inadvertently left off of the slide presentation. Miss Boczek thanked Dr. Granger for meeting with student representatives and for his efforts at facilitating a connection between high school students and the district's leadership. There was discussion regarding "The Finger" and Directors Akre and Thomas shared that they have each had it at their home. President Thomas described his recollection of "The Finger" tradition's history which dates back more than a decade. Principal Scott Ellis spoke up and publicly thanked Sabrina for "bringing us out of the pandemic".
  3. Public Comment
A. Public Comment
The following individuals addressed the board regarding topics of concern:
Michelle Schulz asked the board to reconsider elimination of the math intervention teaching position. She shared comments on that position's funding and the importance of maintaining this important intervention for struggling students. Ms. Schulz also asked the board to join in lobbying Olympia for continued math intervention funding.
Gretchen Makus described her elementary school student's struggle in math and the positive impact she experienced through math intervention. Ms. Makus emotionally expressed her concern that eliminating the math intervention teaching position will have a detrimental impact on her student.
Dan Persse distributed his analysis of the district's fund balance accumulation and questioned the district's assertion of a financial crisis. He asked why the district is proposing significant staffing reductions when there is so much money in reserve.
Natalie Chavez expressed her objection to Director Creydt being interrupted by President Thomas at the April meeting. She added comments about the board not holding a budget work session. Additionally, Ms. Chavez  provided two copies of the "Cause Unknown" book which she recommended to the board and superintendent for information about deaths from the COVID-19 vaccine. She shared more details about COVID vaccine deaths.
  4. Reports
A. School Administrator Reports
Written reports from each school administrator were provided for board review as attachments to the agenda. Dr. Granger expressed his appreciation for the principals' work as they wrap up this school year. Reports will be provided again in August. Director Leu expressed his appreciation for the reports which he enjoys reading.
  B. 2022-2023 HomeConnection Annual Report
The Annual Report of the Blaine School District HomeConnection program was provided by Dawn Cottnair, Director of Alternative Settings and Student Services, as an agenda attachment for board review.
  Director Creydt asked how many students are currently on HomeConnection's waiting list, and Dr. Granger indicated that there are zero students currently on the waiting list. Director Leu asked about the review process for students to attend that program and Dr. Granger explained the process for accepting students into that program.
  C. Enrollment Update
Executive Director of Finance and Operations Amber Porter reported on enrollment through the month of May which was down another 3 FTE from April's count. June will be the last month included in the final 10-month enrollment average.
  D. Budget Status and Financial Report
Amber Porter provided a report on revenue and expenses through the month of April which included a revenue spike resulting from the county's spring property tax collections. She explained the anomaly in comparing to last April which included an additional revenue spike related to the stimulus awards, stabilization dollars, and hold harmless money which helped to back-fill the district's needs. Ms. Porter shared comparisons on the enrollment stabilization funds received. Director Creydt asked about the $900K that hadn't been collected as of the last meeting, and there was continued discussion regarding stimulus funds that still need to be collected. Director Creydt questioned the accuracy of the financial data presented, and Ms. Porter provided further explanation. Director Creydt asked if the April tax collection revenue will reduce the necessary staffing reductions. Ms. Porter explained that the annual spring tax collection is part of this year's budgeted revenue, and the staffing reductions are a result of projections for next year's revenue. Ms. Porter further commented on the district's continuing efforts to evaluate budget considerations for next year. Director Creydt asked what happens to money that was originally allocated for certain costs, and she asked why the district is reducing staff if federal stimulus revenue freed up money that would have been spent elsewhere. Ms. Porter reiterated that the accumulated funds are being used to operate in a deficit this year, with a focus on trying to sustain programs for as long as possible. Director Creydt asked how low the district could deplete its reserve funds, and discussion continued regarding the requirement for a 6% fund balance as well as GASB accounting requirements. Ms. Porter stated that the district cannot continue to spend more money that it receives. She is not concerned about the district's financial state at the end of the current year. She is concerned about the district's financial state at the end of next year, in 2024. Director Leu expressed agreement with Ms. Porter's goal to ensure that the district remains solvent. Director Creydt stated that the district must remain compliant with the school improvement plans.
  Director Leu shared comments about the recent meeting that he and Director Creydt attended with the state auditors. He commended Amber Porter for her work which resulted in a clean audit.
  Director Akre asked if there were any updates from the state legislative session, and Ms. Porter indicated that more will be known when the legislative action is converted to statute. She felt that the session ended better than how it started.
  E. Superintendent's Report
Dr. Christopher Granger provided an update which included information on the following topics.
The Facility Review Committee is continuing to consider its recommendation to the board for a bond initiative. Dr. Granger reminded the board that the bond initiative will have no relation to staffing, and it will align with the district's levy replacement initiative.
Dr. Granger has recently met with both Staff and Student Advisory Committees. He will meet with the Parent Advisory Committee next week and continues to collaborate with these groups for feedback on district operations.
The district's annual audit process is now completed. Dr. Granger thanked Amber Porter for her work to ensure fiscal responsibility that will last for a long time.
Dr. Granger is working with the district's legal counsel on additional updates to procedures related to the appeals process.
Feasibility studies are continuing for potential property in Birch Bay.
Staffing reductions include ESSER positions that would have been reduced next year anyway. Administrative positions are being reduced by 1.2 FTE compared to 2019-2020. District Office staff are being cut by 25%, and cuts on campus are lower. Grant carryover was used to save several positions, including behavior support which was a large request from staff.
State athletic competitions were reviewed.

Director Creydt stated that the reduction of ESSER funded positions is misleading, and Amber Porter offered additional explanation. President Thomas asked for perspective on the unfilled math intervention position. Dr. Granger explained that performance data and staff skill sets were taken into consideration in the decision not to continue that math intervention. Director Creydt asked how the district will stay in compliance with school improvement plans without interventionists, and Dr. Granger described the principals' planning efforts to meet those goals.

Director Gibson commented on the higher percentage of cuts to administration as compared to the percentage of teacher cuts. He further commented on false information that had been published in the local newspaper claiming that no cuts were being made in administration. Dr. Granger added that the vacated Executive Director of Teaching and Learning position will be replaced at the Director level which will result in further cost savings.

Director Creydt asked when it will be clear what needs to be cut. Dr. Granger explained that the district will reduce staffing at the level approved by the board, and will consider adding positions back as needed based upon recommendations from campus administrators and department heads. Director Creydt asserted that it is the superintendent's responsibility to maintain compliance with school improvement plans. Dr. Granger offered assurance that this reduction process has not been easy for anyone. He further commented that positions would be added if enrollment were increasing, and this process is the same in reverse. The staffing reductions underway are a result of enrollment decreasing. President Thomas asked what the board could do to help, and Director Akre recommended communicating with state legislators in Olympia. Director Creydt agreed but stated that the board must hold the superintendent accountable to prioritizing finances in a way that represents what families want. Director Gibson responded with comments in support of Dr. Granger's work. He affirmed that the board has indeed held Dr. Granger accountable, and he has demonstrated that he is very sensitive to the needs of families and students. Director Leu mentioned an upcoming town hall meeting in June with a senator coming to Blaine. He encouraged attendance and participation to let them know how the state's failure to fully fund public education is impacting our local schools. Director Creydt stated that the loss of student enrollment needs to stop and the reason for lost enrollment needs to be determined. Director Leu blamed inadequate funding of public education, and discussion continued. Dr. Granger added comments on the funding mechanism which is based upon numbers rather than on needs. This results in a disparity between families who have means and those without. Many families who can afford it are leaving public education to go to private schools.
  5. Consent Agenda
The board approved all items listed on the Consent Agenda. President Thomas declared the 5-0 vote.
  A. Approval of Minutes - April 24, 2023 Regular Board Meeting
The board approved the minutes of the April 24, 2023 Regular Board Meeting.
Motion by Charles E Gibson, second by Kimberly Akre
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  B. Financial Matters
The board approved Financial Matters as detailed on the Consent Agenda.
Motion by Charles E Gibson, second by Kimberly Akre
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  C. Personnel Matters
The board approved the recommended Personnel Matters.
Motion by Charles E Gibson, second by Kimberly Akre
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  D. Surplus Electronic Equipment Disposal
The board approved the recommended disposal of surplus electronic equipment.
Motion by Charles E Gibson, second by Kimberly Akre
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  E. Resolution 2223-09 Asset Preservation Program
The board voted to adopt Resolution 2223-09 committing to an Asset Preservation Program (APP) to preserve the district's facilities. A Building Condition Assessment report for Blaine High School was provided to the board for review as an attachment to the agenda.
Motion by Charles E Gibson, second by Kimberly Akre
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  F. Resolution 2223-10 WIAA Membership Renewal
The board adopted Resolution 2223-10 indicating approval of Blaine School District's membership renewal with WIAA.
Motion by Charles E Gibson, second by Kimberly Akre
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  6. Action Items
A. No Action Items This Month
There were no Action Items at this meeting.
  7. Board Comments and Future Meeting(s)
A. Discussion of Policies 2121 and 3205
At the request of Director Creydt, the board discussed the language in Policy 2121 Substance Abuse Program and in Policy 3205 Sexual Harassment of Students Prohibited. President Thomas turned the discussion over to Director Creydt.
  Policy 2121 Substance Abuse Program: There was extensive discussion regarding the procedure for responding when a student is found in possession of a vape. Director Creydt expressed a desire for the district to test every vape found to determine what is in it. Dr. Granger expressed a preference for law enforcement to determine when and how vapes are tested. Beth Eide, High School Assistant Principal, described their process and discussion continued regarding how it is determined if the vape contains something other than tobacco. Consideration was given to adding a reference to Fentanyl in the policy along with marijuana. Director Creydt reiterated her request for details about how schools respond to the discovery of vapes, and discussion continued. Dr. Granger indicated that a recommendation to add detail outside of WSSDA's model language should be reviewed by the district's own legal counsel. Director Creydt referenced information she has heard regarding drug traffic specific to Blaine which she believes necessitates the testing of all vapes found on campus. Director Akre suggested getting better clarification about how law enforcement handles a vape that they receive from school. She indicated that allowing law enforcement to address that situation would alleviate the responsibility on school staff. Director Akre further commented that adding a responsibility to test all vapes would take resources away from the schools' educational purposes, and President Thomas agreed. Director Leu agreed that it's reasonable to ask law enforcement to do the testing and commented on the importance of building relationships with law enforcement to better address this specific area. The board directed Dr. Granger to discuss the handling of vapes with the Blaine Police Department to learn how they handle vapes and the protocol for when and how they test vapes.
  Policy 3205 Sexual Harassment of Students Prohibited: Director Creydt clarified that her desire was to discuss the policy's accompanying procedure. She asked for an explanation of how the school handles restraining orders, and extensive discussion followed. Dr. Granger explained how schools follow the court orders, and how those orders must be followed in a modified manner so as not to deny a student of their equal right to an education. It is challenging to follow any distance restrictions with only one campus in Blaine, however specific plans are implemented to ensure that the victim and alleged perpetrator maintain separation while in school. Director Creydt commented on her experience as a counselor with clients whose restraining orders were not being followed at school, and she expressed concern that those victims ended up leaving school because of this. President Thomas clarified that the district's policy is about preventing and/or responding to sexual harassment when it happens on campus and doesn't appear to be about how the school handles court orders that are issued at a later time. Director Creydt offered to consult with DVSAS for guidance on how the district's procedure compares to their experience. Dr. Granger indicated that the procedure deals with the district's response protocol and recent updates were recommended by the district's legal counsel to ensure compliance with current federal regulations. Any additional changes should be reviewed by the district's attorney to ensure compliance with the law. Director Creydt suggested that she follow up with both DVSAS as well as the district's attorney to address her concerns. Director Creydt asked for contact information for the district's attorney, and Dr. Granger asked her to stay after the meeting to discuss her request.
  B. General Comments
Director Leu commented on technology items that were declared surplus at this meeting and wondered if that older equipment could be made available for the less fortunate members of the community. Dr. Granger indicated that this could be reviewed along with updates to the 6000 policy series which will be presented to the board soon. Director Creydt asked why the technology equipment was considered trash, and Dr. Granger explained how that determination is made.
  C. Future Meeting(s) and Agenda Suggestions
The next regular board meeting is on Tuesday, June 20, 2023 at 7:00 p.m.

Suggestions for agenda items include:
Enrollment Update and Financial Report
Superintendent's Report
Approval of Superintendent's Contract
2023-2024 Board Meeting Calendar
Policy Updates
  8. Executive Session
A. Executive Session
There was no executive session at this meeting.
  9. Adjourn
A. Adjourn
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 8:50 p.m. by a unanimous vote.
Motion by Don Leu, second by Dougal Thomas
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
    DATE MINUTES APPROVED: June 20, 2023
   
                         ________________________________                            ________________________________
                                      BOARD PRESIDENT                                                               SECRETARY/CLERK