Blaine School District No. 503
  Regular Board Meeting
Monday, October 23, 2023
  Minutes
  1. Regular Board Meeting
A. Call to Order
President Thomas called the meeting to order, in the district's boardroom, at 7:00 p.m.

All directors were in attendance.
     Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  B. Pledge of Allegiance
President Thomas led in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  C. Board Comments on the Agenda
There were no comments on the agenda.
  2. Good News
A. Community Recognition
Molly Ernst from The Northern Light newspaper shared an award that was received from the Washington Newspaper Publishers Association for collaborative work on the 2022-2023 Back-to-School issue. She thanked the district for collaborating on this project, and gave particular mention to Lisa Moeller who was instrumental in development of the graphics.
  B. High School ASB Student Report
ASB Executive President Noah Chilson presented a review of the activities planned for Blaine High School students in the coming year. He explained the acronym "CARS" which informs the ASB's work. Activities for the year were reviewed, with particular mention of ASB Gives Back Week and the Mt. Rainier Leadership Camp. Inter-high meetings provide an opportunity for student leaders from multiple schools in the region to gather and share ideas. Director Akre asked for examples of ideas that other schools have shared, and Noah described a safe driving program that could be set up as a competition with rewards in hopes of preventing auto accidents.
  3. Public Comment
A. Public Comment
The following individuals addressed the board regarding topics of concern:
Dean Berkeley described an incident which took place at the Blaine Middle School Monster Mash Dance on October 20. He explained that his son attends school in Canada in order to access better academic and technical instruction, and his son was not allowed to attend the BMS dance because he is not a BMS student. Mr. Berkeley described how he felt regarding the way he and his son were treated. He stated that, as a tax payer, he expects school activities to be open to all children whether or not they are students there.
Natalie Chavez expressed appreciation to Director Leu for his budget inquiries at the last meeting. She commented on information she'd read on social media about a "Power/Privileged" checklist being distributed to students, and she expressed concern about the messages students are being given. She suggested that this could be why parents are pulling kids from school. She expressed concern regarding health clinics in schools and will speak about that more at a future meeting.
  4. Reports
A. School Administrator Monthly Reports
Each school administrator provided a brief report to the board.
Michelle McKeown described the return of several fall activities which have been enjoyed by students and families. She elaborated on how first responders demonstrated being safe-keepers in the community. Director Leu described Blaine Primary School as one of the best he's seen, and he commended the school's leadership for doing a great job of getting the district's youngest students off to a good start in their education.
Jordan Radke explained efforts by the elementary school's SIP team to dig into data analysis, including a second data collection this week. He described the importance of having additional data points throughout the year to evaluate and monitor student progress. There were no questions from the board.
Darren Benson shared details about recent activities at Blaine Middle School as well as improvements in 6th graders' writing skills. Director Creydt asked if those improved skills can be attributed to Wednesday late starts, and Mr. Benson described the benefit of being able to have consistent time for professional collaboration. President Thomas expressed appreciation for the large amount of work completed in a short period of time. Director Akre asked about the October 24 volunteer meeting, and Mr. Benson described efforts to address parents' interest in volunteering at the upper grade levels. He elaborated on ways that parents could contribute by assisting with supervision and providing a positive adult presence. President Thomas asked if efforts to build positivity with staff have been continued from the work that was done last year, and Mr. Benson shared examples of efforts to create opportunities for fun while working to build community.
Scott Ellis reviewed the high school's report. President Thomas commented on the unique nature of each school's need for staff camaraderie. Director Leu stated that the community doesn't realize how unusual it is for all campus administrators to provide reports to the board as a collaborative group, which isn't a common practice in other school districts. Mr. Ellis credited Dr. Granger's efforts to build collaboration among the Instructional Leadership Team. Mr. Ellis encouraged the directors to share with the community what's been reported about the good work being done in schools. Director Leu added commendation for each school's consistent report of staff collaboration, and for setting a positive example of how to work together.
  B. Enrollment Update
Executive Director of Finance and Operations Amber Porter provided a report showing enrollment for the month of October, and discussion followed. The increase of 22 FTE is helpful and will factor into the year's 10-month average. ALE enrollment is stronger than expected. Ms. Porter explained that Transition to Kindergarten enrollment is being treated differently this year, and that program has strong enrollment with sections being added. While overall enrollment is up from last month, it remains about 30 FTE below budget. Ms. Porter indicated that she does not have financial concerns at this time based on current enrollment.
  C. Budget Status and Financial Report
Amber Porter provided a report on revenue and expenses through the month of September. Year-to-year comparisons were reviewed. Ms. Porter reminded the board that this year's budget has a $2.5M deficit which will reduce the ending fund balance to the 6% level.

Ms. Porter also informed the board that materials are being gathered to meet the December 15 deadline with Whatcom County to get the district's levy and bond initiatives on the February 13 ballot.

President Thomas asked if new buses have been purchased, and Ms. Porter indicated that she would have to follow up to confirm the status of the district's new bus purchase. Director Creydt asked for clarification about what other revenue options have been researched, and Ms. Porter clarified that her comments referenced opportunities for cost savings and the potential for future legislative funding.
  D. Superintendent's Report
Dr. Christopher Granger provided an update which included information on the following topics.
Levy and bond information is being shared with the community both in superintendent advisory meetings and at the Supper with the Superintendent. Efforts are underway to appoint committees for both yes and no statements in the Voters Pamphlet.
The upcoming legislative session is not a budget session and will be shorter. A local parent group is working on a letter writing campaign in support of fully funding our schools.
The first quarter of the year ends with the grading day on November 3.
Family conferences for K-8 students will take place November 6-9, and those grade levels will be released at 12:50 p.m. Due to the early release schedule, there will be no late start that week because a school day must be four hours for it to count against the 180-day requirement.
Dr. Granger will be reaching out to families whose students have withdrawn to an online program for the purpose of learning about their needs as the district works to develop a local online option.
Dr. Granger addressed a handout given to a small group of high school leadership students which was intended to facilitate in-class discussion regarding a cultural awareness topic. The intent of that handout's use is not what is being represented on social media.
  Director Creydt asked for clarification about reaching out to parents about an online option, and discussion followed.
  5. Consent Agenda
The board approved all items listed on the Consent Agenda.
  A. Approval of Minutes - September 25, 2023 Regular Board Meeting
The board approved the minutes of the September 25, 2023 Regular Board Meeting.
Motion by Don Leu, second by Dougal Thomas
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  B. Financial Matters
The board approved Financial Matters as detailed on the Consent Agenda.
Motion by Don Leu, second by Dougal Thomas
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  C. Personnel Matters
The board approved the recommended Personnel Matters.
Motion by Don Leu, second by Dougal Thomas
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  D. Contracts & Agreements
The board approved the following service contracts:
2023-2024 Catholic Community Services Recovery Center MOU
2023-2024 NWESD/Whatcom Discovery Amendment #1
2023-2024 Whatcom Literacy Council MOU
Motion by Don Leu, second by Dougal Thomas
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  E. Student Travel
The board approved the following Student Travel request(s):
HS Wrestling Team to Bremerton, WA (Dec. 14-16)
HS Wrestling Team to Kent, WA (Jan. 4-6)
HS Wrestling Team to Bainbridge Island, WA (Jan. 12-13)
HS Wrestling Team to George, WA (Jan. 19-20)
Motion by Don Leu, second by Dougal Thomas
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  F. 2023-2024 CTE Program Plan
The board approved the 2023-2024 Career and Technical Education Program Plan.
Motion by Don Leu, second by Dougal Thomas
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  G. 2023-2024 Highly Capable Program Plan
The board approved the 2023-2024 Highly Capable Program Plan.
Motion by Don Leu, second by Dougal Thomas
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  6. Action Items
A. 6000 Series Policy Manual Update - Policies 6020, 6114, and 6212: Second Reading and Adoption
Dr. Granger reviewed information that was shared with each director prior to this meeting regarding the policy updates that were removed at the September meeting from second reading and adoption of the 6000 series. Director Creydt asked why WSSDA's model policy language is being removed regarding the district's issuance of credit cards and credit limit increases. Ms. Porter explained that the recommended update to Policy 6212 would align with the district's actual practice. Discussion continued regarding the oversight of credit card use and vendor credit limits. President Thomas voiced his understanding of Director Creydt's concern regarding unauthorized charges. Ms. Porter reiterated that credit card charges are backed up by a purchase order. Director Leu commented on the board's existing oversight of all expenses which includes credit card charges. Director Creydt questioned why Blaine would want to be an outlier by not observing WSSDA's recommended policy language. Dr. Granger shared additional comments explaining the protocols for credit card and credit limit management. If the board's desire is to retain WSSDA's language, then clear guidance will be needed from the board regarding expectations for how that language would be observed in actual practice.
  The board voted to approve, with no further changes, "Second Reading" and adoption of updates to policies 6020, 6114, and 6212.
Motion by Don Leu, second by Charles E Gibson.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0, 1 abstaining
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
Abstain: Erika Creydt
  7. Board Comments and Future Meeting(s)
A. General Comments
Dr. Granger reminded the board of plans for attendance at the WSSDA Conference in Bellevue from November 16-18, as well as the special meeting of the board and superintendent in executive session on November 16. Director Creydt asked if this would be a special meeting or an executive session. It was clarified that this would be a special meeting in executive session.
  B. Future Meeting(s) and Agenda Suggestions
While in attendance at the WSSDA Annual Conference in Bellevue, the directors will hold a special meeting in executive session starting at 5:30 p.m. on November 16, 2023. Public notice of this special meeting will be provided in advance.

The next regular board meeting is on Monday, November 27, 2023 at 7:00 p.m.

Suggestions for agenda items include:
School Administrator Reports
Enrollment Update & Financial Report
WSSDA Conference Report
Superintendent's Report
Policy Updates
  8. Executive Session
A. Executive Session
At 8:21 p.m., President Thomas announced that, after a short break, the board would move into executive session for approximately thirty (30) minutes to discuss the performance of a school employee. He stated that the meeting was expected to reconvene in regular session at 8:56 p.m., and an announcement would be made if additional time is needed. No action would be taken by the board following the executive session. The board took a 5-minute break, and moved to the superintendent's office where the closed session began at 8:26 p.m.
  9. Reconvene & Adjourn
A. Reconvene & Adjourn
At 8:56 p.m., the board returned and the meeting reconvened in regular session. There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned by a unanimous vote at 8:59 p.m.
Motion by Kimberly Akre, second by Charles E Gibson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
    DATE MINUTES APPROVED: November 27, 2023
     
                         ________________________________                            ________________________________
                                      BOARD PRESIDENT                                                               SECRETARY/CLERK
 