Blaine School District No. 503
  Regular Board Meeting
Tuesday, December 12, 2023
  Minutes
  1. Oath of Office
A. Oath of Office
In the 2023 General Election, the following individuals were elected to office. Superintendent Dr. Christopher Granger administered the Oath of Office to these individuals prior to the start of the meeting.
Erika Creydt, District 1, four-year term (previously elected to represent District 3)
Ben Lazarus, District 2, four-year term
Cliff Freeman, District 3, two remaining years of the position's term
Ryan Ford, District 4, four-year term
Don Leu, District 5, two remaining years of the position's term (previously appointed to this position)
  2. Regular Board Meeting
A. Call to Order
The meeting was called to order, in the district boardroom, at 12:00 p.m.
All directors were in attendance.
     Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Ford, Don Leu
  B. Pledge of Allegiance
All meeting participants recited the Pledge of Allegiance.
  3. Action Items
A. President Pro Tem
Superintendent and Board Secretary Dr. Christopher Granger called for nominations to elect a President Pro Tem to assume the role of meeting facilitator during the election of the board's new president.
Director Freeman nominated Ryan Ford.
Director Creydt nominated Don Leu.
Director Leu nominated Erika Creydt.
There were no further nominations and the President Pro Tem was elected by a roll call vote.
Director Lazarus voted for Don Leu.
Director Leu voted for Erika Creydt.
Director Creydt voted for Don Leu.
Director Ford voted for Erika Creydt.
Director Freeman voted for Erika Creydt.
  B. Reorganization of the Board: Election of Officers
Pursuant to Policy 1210, the board elected a president and a vice president to serve one-year terms.

President Pro Tem Creydt called for nominations for president.
Director Freeman nominated Don Leu.
Director Ford nominated Erika Creydt.
There were no further nominations and the president was elected by a roll call vote.
Director Lazarus voted for Don Leu.
Director Leu voted for Don Leu.
Director Creydt voted for Erika Creydt.
Director Ford voted for Erika Creydt.
Director Freeman voted for Don Leu.

Director Leu assumed the office of president and then called for nominations for vice president.
Director Freeman nominated Ben Lazarus.
Director Creydt nominated Ryan Ford.
There were no further nominations and the vice president was elected by a roll call vote.
Director Freeman voted for Ben Lazarus.
Director Ford voted for Ryan Ford.
Director Creydt voted for Ryan Ford.
Director Leu voted for Ben Lazarus.
Director Lazarus voted for Ben Lazarus.

Director Creydt affirmed her intent to continue serving as the board's Legislative Representative for the second year of the two-year term for that office.

The meeting continued following the published agenda.
  4. Board Comments on Agenda
A. Board Comments on the Agenda
There were no requests for changes to the meeting agenda.
  5. Public Comment
A. Public Comment
No members of the public addressed the board at this meeting.
  6. Reports
A. Superintendent's Report
Dr. Christopher Granger provided an update which included information on the following topics.
As the 2023 calendar year, draws to a close, Dr. Granger expressed appreciation for the directors' service and wished them a happy holiday season.
State law requires the directors to complete OPMA training within 90 days of taking office. Educational Equity training is also required. WSSDA provides quality, optional OnBoard training which can be done independently or as a group. Dr. Granger distributed printouts with the training information and indicated he would follow up with links in an email later this week. He encouraged the directors to let him know how he can best support them with their training requirements.
Board pictures will be taken after the meeting for the boardroom wall and the website.
The directors' Oaths of Office and other documents will be signed after the meeting.
Dr. Granger shared information regarding new Title IX rules which are now expected by March 2024. This will be the first major update to Section 504 regulations in four decades and it will impact how K-12 schools accommodate students with disabilities.
  7. Consent Agenda
For the benefit of the new directors, President Leu explained the board's practice of taking action on routine items on a Consent Agenda. The board has the opportunity to review these items in advance, and a director may request, at the beginning of the meeting, to remove an item from the Consent Agenda when discussion of the item is desired.
  The board voted unanimously to approve all items listed on the Consent Agenda.
  A. Approval of Minutes - November 27, 2023 Regular Board Meeting
The board approved the minutes of the November 27, 2023 Regular Board Meeting.
Motion by Cliff Freeman, second by Ben Lazarus
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Ford, Don Leu
  B. Personnel Matters
The board approved the recommended Personnel Matters.
Motion by Cliff Freeman, second by Ben Lazarus
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Ford, Don Leu
  C. Financial Matters
The board approved Financial Matters as detailed on the Consent Agenda.
Motion by Cliff Freeman, second by Ben Lazarus
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Ford, Don Leu

D. Student Travel
There were no Student Travel Requests to approve at this meeting.
  E. Contracts & Agreements
The board approved the following service contracts:
2023-2024 Community Resilience Research LOA
2023-2024 NWESD Technology Contract Amendment II
K&L Gates Terms of Engagement (2024 Bond Initiative)
Motion by Cliff Freeman, second by Ben Lazarus
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Ford, Don Leu
  8. Board Comments and Future Meeting(s)
A. General Comments
President Leu reminded the other directors that the board's regular meetings are on the 4th Monday of each month.

Director Creydt suggested holding a budget work session early in 2024.
  Dr. Granger informed the board of his desire to schedule a special meeting, in executive session, to review the new board's expectations for his performance. He asked the directors to let him know their availability on January 4 and January 8.
  Director Ford suggested holding an open board meeting to provide the public with information about the levy and bond election. Dr. Granger will share PDC rules with the board about what the directors can and cannot do as representatives of the district regarding school levy and bond initiatives.

Director Freeman shared comments on each director's background and professional experience which he believes represents a diverse cross-section of the community. He further believes that all of the directors share a value of excellence in education, and he looks forward to working as a team with the new board moving forward.
  B. Future Meeting(s) and Agenda Suggestions
The next regular board meeting will be at 7:00 p.m. on Monday, January 22, 2024.
School Board Recognition Month
School Administrator Monthly Reports
Enrollment Update and Financial Report
Consent Agenda
Superintendent's Report
  9. Executive Session
A. Executive Session
At 12:21 p.m., President Leu announced that the board would move into executive session for 15 minutes, until approximately 12:40 p.m., for the purpose of discussing the performance of a public employee. No action would be taken by the board following the closed session and any extension of time would be announced. After a short break, the executive session began at approximately 12:28 p.m. in the superintendent's office.
  10. Reconvene & Adjourn
A. Reconvene & Adjourn
At 12:43 p.m., the executive session ended and the directors made their way back to the boardroom. There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned by a unanimous vote at 12:47 p.m.
Motion by Cliff Freeman, second by Ryan Ford
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Ford, Don Leu
    DATE MINUTES APPROVED: January 22, 2024
   
                         ________________________________                            ________________________________
                                       BOARD PRESIDENT                                                           SECRETARY/CLERK