Mercer Island School District
4160 86th Ave SE, Mercer Island, WA 98040
Board of Directors Regular Meeting (Wednesday, September 11, 2024)
Generated by Michelle Mueller, Executive Assistant to the Superintendent, on Wednesday, September 11, 2024.
    MEETING MINUTES
1. Opening Items (5:00 p.m.)
A. Call to Order (Google Meet Link)
President Lurie called the regular meeting to order at 5:03 p.m.
  Attendees:
  President Deborah Lurie
Vice President Dan Glowitz
Director Jody Lee
Director Cristina Martinez
Director Maggie Tai Tucker - remotely
Superintendent Fred Rundle
Student Board Representative Ava Zhang (until approximately 5:15 p.m.)
Student Board Representative Lucy Dorer
Executive Director Erin Battersby
Executive Director Matt Sullivan
Executive Director Nova Williams
Director Andreeves Ronser
Communications Coordinator Ian Henry
  B. Establishment of Agenda
MSC Glowitz/Lee to establish the agenda. Advisory Vote 1-0. Vote 5-0.
Motion passed.
  C. Recognition: Swearing-in Junior Student Board Rep
Superintendent Rundle swore in new junior Student Representative to the Board, Lucy Dorer.
  The Board heard agenda item 2.A. next.
  D. Superintendent Report
This agenda item was heard after agenda item 2.A. With reference to the presentation attached to the agenda, Superintendent Rundle indicated that actual enrollment as of September 11 is 1,565, exceeding budgeted FTE of 1,503. He noted an anomaly in that the current kindergarten class is larger than the 1st grade class. Ordinarily, kindergarten classes are smaller than first grade classes, and there is an increase in the number of students rising from kindergarten to 1st grade. Superintendent Rundle reported enrollment above FTE projections at all levels and anticipates the number to bump up further as the District is aware of additional students intending to enroll. He reported further that 40 students have enrolled as part of the 8th-12th grade open enrollment policy, with distribution fairly evenly divided between Seattle and the Eastside. He noted that there are 66 staff children and 10 City staff children enrolled, as well as a few more who were admitted under other policy exceptions.
  Superintendent Rundle reported that the average FTE of 3,895 is higher than last year and is close to the Davis Demographics enrollment projection of 3,869, although current figures include a slight bump from open enrollment. Some discussion occurred, specifically around connecting with Riot Games to promote the District's open enrollment opportunity; what other benefits might be made available to enhance the school community, a discussion Superintendent Rundle will defer to November; and why the headcounts at the secondary level decreased between August and September. On the latter point, Superintendent Rundle noted that a decrease is fairly typical when figures are reconciled after the start of school and drew attention to a late surge in elementary enrollment, resulting in a last-minute class addition.
  The Board heard a technology update from Director Ronser with reference to the attachment to the agenda as follows:
The District has received a commitment for e-Rate funding again this year, saving taxpayers money. He explained a bit about the application and qualification process and indicated that the projects the District hopes to complete include various technological upgrades to enhance speed and security. Some discussion occurred.
Cybersecurity upgrades have been pursued to keep the network secure and keep up with current security demands. He noted that the District has a Disaster Recovery Plan, which can be implemented to get the network back up and running in case of a major disruption. These upgrades come with an increase in cost. The District has applied for state and local grants as well as for additional federal funds to help offset cybersecurity costs and other tech initiatives.
The District has launched an Artificial Intelligence (AI) Values webpage, which, among other things, incorporated guidance from OSPI, provides links to resources, presents the District's AI values, addresses security and student privacy. Refer to the tabs at the bottom of the webpage. The AI workgroup is connecting with building principals to develop classroom AI policies, which will be tailored for each building.
  Some discussion occurred around tools implemented and utilized by the District. Director Tucker expressed an interest in hearing more about AI and suggested a possible study session to learn more or the possibility of seeing what's happening on the Board's site visits.
  Board heard agenda item 2.B. next.
  2. Partial Governance Process Monitoring
A. Board Policy 1250: Students on Governing Boards - Student Representatives Report
This agenda item was heard after agenda item 1.C. Student Board Representatives Zhang and Dorer shared a presentation along with their report on events and activities at District schools. They also followed up on implementation of the new "no cell phone" policy, reporting that many students aren't locking their phones in their pouches but are keeping them tucked away in their backpacks and not accessing them during school hours. Teachers are doing a good job with enforcement. Student Representative Zhang reported further that new students to the District appear to be settling in well. Superintendent Rundle referenced the New Student Welcome Committee, designed to welcome students year round, and noted that the first meeting is anticipated in October.
No action was taken.
  The Board heard agenda item 1.D. next.
  B. Board Policy 1003: Board Job Description - Board Discussion on Committee for Naming of District Facilities
This agenda item was heard after agenda item 1.D. President Lurie reviewed the status of a District naming committee, as noted on the agenda. She asked for feedback on the new committee make up proposed by Superintendent Rundle and attached to the agenda. Some discussion occurred around the inclusion of former board members, who Superintendent Rundle noted wear many hats in the community and may participate on the committee under more than one category. Superintendent Rundle noted further that the committee is designed as an advisory committee who will make a recommendation to the Board. Additional discussion occurred around the use of the word stakeholder, with Director Tucker noting that it carries negative connotations. The Board determined by consensus that Vice President Glowitz and Director Tucker will serve on the committee. Superintendent Rundle indicated that he will connect with them to begin seeking committee members. It was determined that Vice President Glowitz, during agenda planning, would add updates to the agenda as needed. 
No action was taken.
  President Lurie called a brief recess at 5:55 p.m.
President Lurie resumed the meeting at 6:02 p.m. with agenda item 3.A.
  C. Board Policy 1005: Board Officers - Legislative Priorities for WSSDA General Assembly
This agenda item was hard after agenda item 3.A. Directors Lee and Martinez discussed how the District intends to vote on key proposals being presented at the WSSDA General Assembly with reference to the voting guide attached to the agenda. Director Martinez attended the WSSDA Coalition of Directors of Color, who appeared to be aligned with the District's positions on issues. Vice President Glowitz expressed some concern around proposals that sound good theoretically but may not function well in practice (e.g., capital project construction, ample funding for high-poverty schools schools). Director Martinez suggested that they analyze what passes and what doesn't and determine what changes might need to be made going forward. Some discussion occurred around ample versus equitable funding. Superintendent Rundle referenced a publication authored by Dr. Knight, who has performed work around public school funding in the state. In the report, the District was compared to Tukwila using metrics that Superintendent Rundle feels unfairly characterize the District. He indicated that Executive Director Sullivan is drafting a white paper to determine which districts are comparable by using a different denominator (e.g., assessed value versus tax base). Additional discussion occurred.
No action was taken.
  D. Board Policy 1800 OE-4: Staff Compensation - Certificated Collective Bargaining Agreement with MIEA for 2024-2025
Executive Director Battersby reported that the District and the Mercer Island Education Association (MIEA) have reached 3-year agreements with negotiated salary increases each year as well as other working benefits. the agreements have been ratified by each group. Executive Director Battersby highlighted that these agreements will creates stability for budgeting and staff and reviewed details as outlined in the summary attached to the agenda.
  MSC Martinez/Lee to approve the Certificated Collective Bargaining Agreement with MIEA for 2024-2025. Advisory Vote 1-0. Vote 5-0.
Motion passed.
  E. Board Policy 1800 OE-4: Staff Compensation - Classified Collective Bargaining Agreement with MIEA for 2024-2025
Executive Director Battersby continued, reporting on the classified agreement, which covers such positions as paraprofessionals, administrative assistants, and nurses, among others. Some changes to note include enhancements for bus drivers, increased rates to the sub schedule to attract quality subs, increased custodial rates to attract and retain staff, the opportunity to increase wages by completing additional training for paras., parity in pay for coaches across different sports, and the addition of a preservice day for classified staff. She reported further that the agreement guarantees a minimum salary increase of the Implicit Price Deflator (IPD), as determined by the State, plus one percent. Some discussion occurred around the potential financial, programming and staffing impact such a guarantee might have in the future. Superintendent Rundle responded to express no concern about diminishing programs or experience in District schools and noted that staffing adjustments may be necessary for the District to stay within our financial means. Additional discussion occurred whether the agreement was premised around continuing open enrollment and on how legislative funding decisions in the 2025 session could be influential factors. Board directors acknowledged the hard work of union members and administrators/staff on the bargaining team. Student Representative Dorer expressed appreciation to teachers. Superintendent Rundle acknowledged MIEA bargaining team members present at the meeting as well as Executive Director Battersby. 
  MSC Lee/Martinez to approve the Classified Collective Bargaining Agreement with MIEA for 2024-2025. Advisory Vote 1-0. Vote 5-0.
Motion passed.
  The Board heard agenda item 4.A. next.
  3. Recognition & Public Input (6:00 p.m.)
A. Recognition (Cont'd): IMS Robotics Team; NYT Student Podcast Contest Winner/Runners Up; Suicide Prevention Month; Childhood Cancer Awareness Month; National Hispanic Heritage Month
Superintendent Rundle acknowledged Suicide Prevention Month and Childhood Cancer Awareness Month, which are both recognized during the month of September, as well as National Hispanic Heritage Month, which is celebrated from September 15 to October 15. Additional details are included in the agenda. Superintendent Rundle called attention to the fact that there are students in our district currently battling cancer and encouraged community member to offer their support.
  The Board recognized students as follows.
Team Slippery Penguin, a team from IMS in 2023-2024 who are now at MIHS, ranked as the highest robotics team in the Pacific NW at the VEX Robotics World Championships last April. Team members introduced themselves and shared their role on the team, followed by a demonstration of one of the robots they designed and built. The team indicated that they are already developing a new robot for the next competition.
Four MIHS students were named finalists in the New York Times Student Podcast Contest. Students introduced themselves and offered insight into the meaning behind their podcasts and what motivated them to address the topics they chose. 
  The Board heard agenda item 2.C. next.
  B. Public Input
The Board heard no public input.
  4. Consent Agenda
A. Approval of Consent Agenda
MSC Glowitz/Lee to approve the Consent Agenda as published. Advisory Vote 1-0. Vote 5-0.
Motion passed.
B. Warrants
C. Gifts
D. Personnel Report
E. Regular Meeting Minutes (08/29/2024)
F. Post-Monitoring Language Review - Board Policy 1008: Annual Agenda Planning
  5. Items Removed from Consent Agenda
No items were removed from the consent agenda.
  6. Superintendent Announcements
A. Announcements
Superintendent Rundle discussed the opportunity to hold a study session on Fundamental 1 and inquired about board director availability on the morning of Friday, October 11. Directors Lurie, Lee, Martinez and Tucker indicated availability. Director Glowitz will need to confirm.
  7. Board Announcements, Inquiries and Reports
A. Legislative Report
Director Lee had no further report.
  B. Announcements; Inquiries; Reports
Student Representative Dorer shared that she and Student Representative Zhang are interested in working with Superintendent Student Advisory students to host a panel discussion, as was done last year around the election cycle. More details will be provided at a future meeting. President Lurie reported having attended the first PTA Council meeting, and informed the Board that MISF will not hold a fall Phone-A-Thon but will be hosting a new fall fundraising event. She indicated that ticket purchases are somewhat limited, and encouraged directors, if interested, to make their purchases early. She further encouraged directors to provide prompt responses to Ms. Mueller with respect to legislative linkage availability and interest in ordering business cards.
  C. Board Assignments
Director Tucker indicated that she failed to see this agenda item and suggested that it be moved to partial governance monitoring in the future.
  Board directors made the following assignments for the 2024-2025 school year.
School PACs
Island Park - Vice President Glowitz
Lakeridge - Director Tucker
Northwood - Director Lee
West Mercer - Director Martinez
IMS - President Lurie
MIHS - Director Lee
PTA Committees
PTA Council - President Lurie
PTA DEI Committee - Director Tucker
PTA Advocacy Committee - Directors Lee and Martinez will alternate
Superintendent Advisories
Superintendent Community Advisory - Vice President Glowitz
Superintendent Equity Advisory Council - Director Martinez
Superintendent Teaching and Learning Advisory - Vice President Glowitz
  President Lurie reminded directors to communicate absences in advance so another director can cover. She also encouraged directors to attend a least one social event this year hosted by the school to which they're assigned to help build community. Director Martinez felt this could stimulate more conversation between board directors and community members.
  8. Adjournment
A. Motion to Adjourn
MSC Glowitz/Lee to adjourn the regular meeting at 7:20 p.m. Advisory Vote 1-0. Vote 5-0.
Motion passed.