Mercer Island School District
4160 86th Ave SE, Mercer Island, WA 98040
Board of Directors Regular Meeting (Thursday, October 10, 2024)
Generated by Michelle Mueller, Executive Assistant to the Superintendent, on Thursday, October 10, 2024.
    MEETING MINUTES
1. Opening Items (5:00 p.m.)
A. Call to Order (Google Meet Link)
President Lurie called the regular meeting to order at 5:00 p.m.
  Attendees:
  President Deborah Lurie
Vice President Dan Glowitz
Director Jody Lee
Director Cristina Martinez - via phone from 5:00 to 5:11 p.m., in person beginning at 5:12 p.m.
Director Maggie Tai Tucker
Superintendent Fred Rundle
Student Board Representative Ava Zhang
Student Board Representative Lucy Dorer
Executive Director Matt Sullivan
Executive Director Nova Williams
Co-Director of Human Resources Aaron Miller
Director Andreeves Ronser
Communications Coordinator Ian Henry
Director of Food Services Rachael Mathews
  B. Establishment of Agenda
MSC Glowitz/Lee to establish the agenda. Advisory Vote 2-0. Vote 4-0 (Martinez did not vote).
Motion passed.
  C. Recognition: Mercer Island Schools Foundation; Congressional Award Gold Medal Recipient; WA State John Wooden Award Winner; Learning Disabilities Awareness Month; Yom Kippur; Indigenous People’s Day; National School Lunch Week; Great Washington ShakeOut; National School Bus Safety Week
Superintendent Rundle introduced Mercer Island Schools Foundation (MISF) Executive Director Tammy Shoop and Development Manager Bridget Olsen. He also expressed appreciation to MISF for all of their efforts on behalf of the District. Executive Director Shoop offered comments, including around donations, grants, partnerships and sponsors. Executive Director Shoop presented the Board with a $851,240 check. Some discussion occurred, including around corporate partnerships. Board directors and student board representatives thanked MISF for their generous donation.
  Superintendent Rundle recognized MIHS student Molly Dudley for being awarded the Congressional Award Gold Medal. He offered comments on this remarkable achievement. Miss Dudley shared a reflection on her involvement with the Washington Trails Association, which led to her receiving this award. Superintendent Rundle further recognized MIHS Coach/Teacher Gavin Cree for receiving the John Wooden Award and offered comments on this outstanding accomplishment. Coach Cree shared some background on the award, expressed his appreciation for being recognized, spoke about Coach Ed Pepple, under whom he played and coached, serving as a source of inspiration, and acknowledged District students and administrators as well as the support of his family.
  Superintendent Rundle offered additional recognition as noted in the agenda.
   D. Superintendent Report
Superintendent Rundle offered an update on enrollment to the Board, with reference to the presentation attached to the agenda. He offered a historical perspective on elementary enrollment and comments on current enrollment, indicating that actual enrollment figures exceed projections at all grade bands. He also spoke to the number of new students exceeding those who withdrew and highlighted that the District has more kindergartners than first graders, which is a surprising and encouraging finding. Superintendent Rundle walked through a comparison by grade level of figures from 2023-2024 to 2024-2025, and noted that the 2024 graduating class of seniors was much larger than the incoming 2024-2025 kindergarten class. He noted further, however, that this year's kindergarten class is larger than last year's class and is equivalent in numbers to the 2024-2025 first grade class, representing a difference when compared to prior years where the kindergarten class is historically smaller. Vice President Glowitz expressed an interest in knowing where new students are coming from as well as where withdrawing students are going at 6th and 9th grade transition points. Superintendent Rundle indicated that a more comprehensive update will be provided when the District presents its annual monitoring of OE-9. He shared information on open enrollment, noting that a total of 44 students have joined the District through the new policy provision permitting 8th-12th grade nonresident enrollment. Superintendent Rundle offered further comments on withdrawal trends, highlighting again that withdrawals were more than offset by the addition of new students. Some discussion occurred around withdrawals during Covid and how Mercer Island numbers compared to other districts in the region.
  The Board moved to agenda item 3.A.
  2. Partial Governance Process Monitoring
A. Board Policy 1800 OE-9: Communication and Support to the Board - Mercer Island School District Improvement Plan
The Board heard this agenda item following agenda item 4.A. Superintendent Rundle relayed that the District's Learning Services team participated in a retreat today with Dr. Ray Smith to review and refine the District's Improvement Plan. This resulted in several changes, as reported by Executive Director Williams, including narrowing the plan down to 3 key goals: 1) closing achievement and opportunity gaps, with a focus on students with disabilities and English language learners; 2) strengthening the District's multi-tiered systems of support (MTSS); and 3) providing targeted professional learning for staff around MTSS and personalized instruction. Key performance indicators were identified to track progress on these goals, including monitoring early literacy rates, report card data, behavior data, and staff/student feedback. Superintendent Rundle emphasized that the MTSS framework is intended to support the growth of all students, not just those struggling. Some discussion occurred around the term differentiation versus achievement gap. Superintendent Rundle noted that this will be discussed further during the Board's special meeting on October 11. Executive Director Williams clarified that the term achievement gap refers to all students getting when they need in order to achieve and the fact that this will look different for each student. There was discussion around avoiding a "monoculture" approach and instead nurturing the unique strengths and needs of each student. Monitoring will occur more frequently throughout the year to allow for timely adjustments. The District will also explore ways to better represent and support underserved student populations within the goals and action items.
  No action was taken.
  B. Board Policy 1250: Students on Governing Boards - Student Representatives Report
Student Board Representatives Zhang and Dorer offered a report on activities and events in District schools, including a slideshow. They spoke also about the first meeting of the Superintendent Student Advisory and highlighted that the focus this year will be on how to reduce barriers. They noted that students have enjoyed meeting nonresident students new to IMS and MIHS and are gaining new perspectives from these relationships.
No action was taken.
  C. Board Policy 1800 OE-9: Communication and Support to the Board - Superintendent’s Recommended Policy Revisions to Board Policy 3205: Sexual Harassment of Students Prohibited (2nd rdg)
Superintendent Rundle noted that Executive Director Battersy was unable to present today, but that she attempted to address the Board's concerns, expressed during the first reading, in the revised policy attached to the agenda and included the procedure, broken into two parts, for reference and clarity. Superintendent Rundle offered to answer any questions directors may have on the policy and procedures. Vice President Glowitz expressed an interest in adding language under the section Staff Responsibilities and Training to clarify the notification requirements. He proposed using language directly from the federal regulation to state that "any school employee who has information about conduct that reasonably may constitute sex discrimination" is responsible for reporting to their supervisor or the District's Title IX Coordinator. The Board agreed that the proposed language was more comprehensive, covered scenarios where an employee may have relevant information but not necessarily be a direct witness, and would provide clearer guidance to staff on their reporting obligations. Some discussion was held around the procedure consisting of two separate documents - one focused on the general Title IX compliance and grievance process, and another more narrowly on staff responsibilities and training. Directors agreed that the separate procedures helps to delineate the different components and makes the information more accessible. Directors acknowledged the extensive federal commentary and guidance that has been issued around Title IX and emphasized the importance of ensuring the District's policies and procedures fully align with the applicable regulations. President Lurie requested that Vice President Glowitz receive a clean copy of the policy to redline with his desired changes and return to Michelle Mueller. This item will be included for a third reading on the agenda at the Board's next regular meeting.
No action was taken.
  The Board moved to agenda item 5.A.
  3. Full Governance Process Monitoring
A. Board Policy 1800 OE-4: Staff Compensation (L-1)
The Board heard this agenda item following agenda item 1.D. Director Miller reported that the District is in compliance with OE-4. Director Miller reminded the Board that the District negotiated a rare 3-year agreement with MIEA. The agreement represents a balance between fiscal responsibility and meeting the financial needs of teachers, classified staff, and other employees. He shared that attrition is very low and job openings receive many applications. He attributes this to the competitive compensation package as well as the positive culture that has been developed in the District. The District is perceived as a desirable place to work.
MSC Tucker/Martinez to find the superintendent in compliance with OE-4: Staff Compensation. Advisory Vote 2-0. Vote 5-0.
Motion passed.
  4. Public Input (6:00 p.m.)
A. Public Input
No public input was heard.
  The Board moved to agenda item 2.A.
  5. Consent Agenda
The Board heard this agenda item following agenda item 2.C.
A. Approval of Consent Agenda
MSC Glowitz/Martinez to approve the Consent Agenda as published. Advisory Vote 2-0. Vote 5-0.
Motion passed.
B. Warrants
C. Gifts
D. Personnel Report
E. Regular Meeting Minutes (09/26/2024)
F. Post-Monitoring Language Review - Board Policy 1800 OE-5: Staff Evaluation and Instructional Practices
G. Board Policy 1800 OE-2: Global Executive Constraint Monitoring (L-0)
H. Board Policy 1800 OE-12: Emergency Superintendent Succession Monitoring (L-0)
I. Board Policy 5415: Educational Administration and Support Personnel - Salaries & Benefits P2 & P3 (1st rdg.)
  6. Items Removed from Consent Agenda
No items were removed from the consent agenda.
  7. Superintendent Announcements
A. Announcements
Superintendent Rundle had no announcements. 
  8. Board Announcements, Inquiries and Reports
A. Legislative Report
Director Lee had no report.
  B. Announcements; Inquiries; Reports
President Lurie asked directors to return the flight information requested for the WSSDA Annual Conference to Michelle Mueller.
Director Tucker reported attending the first PTA DEI Committee meeting. Director Lee reported attending the MIHS PAC meeting where the new "no cell phone" policy was discussed. She noted that students are complying with the policy, and there have been far fewer violations than she anticipated. She noted having been initially skeptical about the new policy but is now strongly supportive of it after seeing the positive impacts on school culture and the high school learning environment. President Lurie did not attend the PTA Council meeting as she did not received communication alerting her to the scheduled meeting. Superintendent Rundle, who was in attendance, spoke about Deputy Mayor Rosenbaum's comments at the meeting around electric scooters on the Island. The City is looking at new policy around this topic. Some discussion occurred, including around what IMS is doing to control reckless scooter riding on middle school grounds. Student Representative Dorer suggested that it might be helpful to educate students on the rules of the road. She emphasized that middle school students have not learned to drive a car and are, therefore, not exposed to this information. Director Miller added that bus drivers have expressed concern about student scooter riding as well.
  8. Adjournment
A. Motion to Adjourn
MSC Glowitz/Tucker to adjourn the regular meeting at 6:55 p.m. Advisory Vote 2-0. Vote 5-0.
Motion passed.