Lakeridge Elementary School
8215 SE 78th St, Mercer Island, WA 98040
Board of Directors Special Meeting (Thursday, October 17, 2024)
Generated by Michelle Mueller, Executive Assistant to the Superintendent, on Thursday, October 17, 2024.
    MEETING MINUTES
1. Opening Items
A. Call to Order (8:00 a.m.)
President Lurie called the special meeting to order at 8:05 a.m. Those present included Directors Deborah Lurie, Dan Glowitz, Jody Lee, Cristina Martinez and Maggie Tai Tucker. Also present were Superintendent Fred Rundle; Student Board Representatives Ava Zhang and Lucy Dorer; Principal Heidi Christensen; Executive Directors Erin Battersby, Matt Sullivan and Nova Williams; Directors Aaron Miller, Melissa Robertson and Andreeves Ronser; Assistant Director Hannah Bolivar; Learning Services Coordinator Weston Lucas; and Communications Coordinator Ian Henry (for a portion of the meeting).
  MSC Glowitz/Lee to establish the agenda. Advisory Vote 2-0. Vote 5-0.
Motion passed.
  B. Purpose of Special Meeting: to conduct a site visit at Lakeridge Elementary School and meet with staff, students and parents
  C. Breakfast with the Board (8:00 a.m.)
The Board participated in a "meet and greet" with administrators and Lakeridge staff members.
  D. Welcome to a Day at Lakeridge (8:30 a.m.)
The Board heard a presentation from Lakeridge administration on staff on what represents a typical day in the life of a Lakeridge student and an introduction to math readiness.
  E. Community Connection and Coffee (9:00 a.m.)
The Board participated in a Question and Answer session with parents and community members.
  F. Break (9:30 a.m.)
  2. Classroom Visits
A. Classroom Visits (9:45 a.m.)
The Board was divided into groups, consisting of Board members and administrators. The groups were escorted by 5th grade student tour guides on visits to classrooms.
  3. Concluding Item
A. Debrief (10:45 a.m.)
The Board participated in a debrief session with administrators.
  4. Adjournment
A. Adjourn (11:00 a.m.)
MSC Tucker/Lee to adjourn the meeting at 11:04 a.m. Advisory Vote 2-0. Vote 5-0.
Motion passed.