WASHOUGAL SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 112-06
Board of Directors' Meeting
Tuesday, October 25, 2011, 6:30 p.m.
PRESENT: Blaine Peterson, Board Director; Elaine Pfeifer, Board Director; Jim Gadberry, Board
Director; Dawn Tarzian, Superintendent and Secretary to the Board. The prearranged absence of
Board Director Ron Dinius was excused. Board Director Terrie Hutchins was absent.
1.
CALL TO ORDER – PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
Blaine Peterson called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. and led the pledge of allegiance.
2.
AGENDA REVISIONS
None.
3.
COMMENTS – BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS
Jim Gadberry expressed his appreciation for the tour of Cape Horn-Skye Elementary School (Cape)
hosted by the school’s principal, Mary Lou Woody. He also appreciates the dedication of the
school’s staff. Elaine thanked Cape for hosting the evening’s meeting. Elaine recently attended a
Washington State School Directors’ Association (WSSDA) regional meeting with Dawn Tarzian and
Ron Dinius. She encouraged the board to return the recently received surveys to WSSDA so that
input from Washougal will be considered. Blaine Peterson repeated thanks to Cape for the tour and
hosting of the meeting. He recently attended a College 101 class at Washougal High School (WHS)
that was very informative. He shared highlights from the most recent edition of the Post-Record
sports coverage. He announced that WHS will be performing “Guys and Dolls” in mid-November,
which is sure to be a great show.
4.
SUPERINTENDENT’S UPDATE
Dawn Tarzian took a moment to acknowledge the grief and sense of loss experienced by the district
and community due to the death of former student Trenton Shelby. She spoke of Trenton’s
memorial service and of some of the comments about him shared by students and staff. She
informed the board that Aaron Hansen has been contacted by Bethel High School in Connecticut
with a request to use the WHS Senior Culminating Project Booklet, stating that it was one of the best
they had come across in their research. WHS will gladly share the booklet, and will share the
complement with the staff members who created the document. Dawn recently spent a morning at
Excelsior High School (EHS) and was very impressed with what she witnessed. In addition to some
very rigorous instruction taking place, she was able to meet Kris Potter from Clark County
Homegrown Gardens, who has been working with EHS students. Dawn also shared a
communication sent by an EHS 2011 graduate, who is very appreciative of the efforts of the EHS
staff, thanking them for the profound impact on the his life. Dawn informed the board that OSPI
will be conducting a monitoring visit of the district the week of April 2-6, 2012. Materials will be
submitted six weeks prior to the visit, which means that the weeks leading up to February 24, 2012
will be especially busy for District Office staff. The district has been experiencing a real shortage of
custodial substitutes this fall and is working to recruit and retain more people interested in this role.
Dawn appreciates the extra work that has been taken on by building principals and staff when
substitute positions have not been filled. Volunteers from St. Anne’s Episcopal Church have been
working with students at Hathaway Elementary School in reading and math. The Hathaway Booster
Club recently presented the music teacher with a check for $4300 to buy ORF musical instruments.
The backpack weekend food program is off and running with 22 students being helped and requests
for 3 more. Dawn closed by announcing that Board Director Jim Gadberry has recently been
inducted into the National Wrestling Coaches Hall of Fame, congratulating Jim on this welldeserved honor. Jim has been coaching for 38 years.

5.
COMMENTS – CITIZENS
Kim Daniels thanked the board for coming to Cape Horn-Skye for the meeting.
6.

CONSENT AGENDA

Board members received and reviewed the following documents in advance of the meeting:
A. Meeting Minutes (October 11, 2011)
B. Payroll Pre-Authorization (October 2011)
C. Accounts Payable (October 28, 2011 pay date)
General Fund
Warrant numbers 184105 – 184211 in the amount of $146,289.23 (Pay date: October 28, 2011)
ASB Fund
Warrant numbers 18895 – 18921 in the amount of $8,010.80 (Pay date: October 28, 2011)
Capital Projects Fund
Warrant numbers 3772 – 3775 in the amount of $19,925.49 (Pay date: October 28, 2011)
ACH
ACH numbers 111200074 – 111200089 in the amount of $3,778.04 (Pay date: October 28, 2011)
D. Personnel Report
E. Contracts
F. Travel
G. ER 3 – Treatment of Parents, Students and the Public
Blaine Peterson noted the addition to the personnel report since the original board packets were
prepared. Elaine Pfeifer moved to approve the consent agenda as presented. Jim Gadberry seconded
and the motion carried unanimously.
7.

PRESENTATIONS
A. Cape Horn-Skye Elementary School Improvement Plan
Mary Lou Woody thanked the board for holding its meeting at Cape. She asked the Cape staff,
parents and students to introduce themselves. She began the presentation by sharing the 2010-11
Measurements of Student Progress (MSP) data. She spoke of how the staff appreciates the
immediate feedback provided by district assessments, including Easy CBM. Cape teachers Lucie
Willeman, Chelsea Meats and Cindy Coons presented assessment data and instructional strategies
for reading, math and writing, respectively. They shared successes, including further
implementation of data-driven instruction and cross-curriculum instruction, and expressed frustration
at the lack of alignment of current curriculum materials with the changing state standards. The
teachers shared that they struggle to find adequate time for interventions on top of regular
instruction, though their staff works well in teams, both grade-level and vertical, to collaborate in
order to meet the needs of the students. Mary Lou closed by sharing perception data survey results.
Elaine Pfeifer commended the teachers for bringing to the board’s attention the lack of curriculum
alignment with the new state standards. She appreciates the positive attitude of the teachers as they
work to supplement curriculum to meet the goals of the standards, and is happy to see that Cape
provides such a collaborative environment. Blaine Peterson concurred with Elaine’s comments. Jim
Gadberry shared his appreciation for the work being done by Cape staff and families.
• Staff Feedback Forum
Lucie Willeman appreciates that the district is small enough to provide teachers opportunities to be
involved in district-wide committees. Kam Lawrence appreciates the opportunities to further her
own education and knowledge through professional development, in order to obtain better skills to
work with her students. Michele Mederos values the support that staff members provide to one
another as well as the staff’s high level of respect for each other. The kids and families here are
fantastic. She likes working in this lively atmosphere, noting that this is a great place to be. She
feels able to share concerns with her administrator, adding that Mary Lou has high expectations but
also shows great appreciation for the varied skills and strengths that the staff brings to the school.
Michele says that a lack of time and resources is a challenge. Kam receives great support from her

administrator, noting that teachers can email Mary Lou with a comment or concern and receive an
almost immediate response. Penny Andrews loves working here. She commutes about an hour to
come to Cape. She loves the families, the kids, and feels that she can go to the principal with ideas
and receive support to implement. Cindy Coons added that Mary Lou writes grants for teachers for
programs supporting students. Lucie has never considered sharing a concern at the district level,
since she has always felt that everything was handled well at the building level. Kim Daniels has
worked at Cape for 25 years. Cape has a long history involving great staff and great families. Kim
thanked the board for paying attention to the 5th grade crowding issue. She said that one thing the
board could continue to do to support teachers is to keep an eye on class sizes. Chelsea Meats
added her support for the class size comment. Lori Schilling has worked at both the elementary and
middle school levels, and she asked the board to continue to support the PLC time at the elementary
schools. The time to meet together is very beneficial.
• Volunteer Feedback Forum
The parent of a current middle schooler who went through Cape said that she has never had a teacher
here who wasn’t helpful. Another parent seconded that her students have only had good teachers.
She appreciates that the teaching staff goes above and beyond as exemplified by staff identifying her
son to move ahead in math. Mary Lou Woody noted that there were approximately 11,000 volunteer
hours put in at Cape last year. A parent asked the board to put the Harvest Festival on their
calendars for next year. It is “tons of fun… the best thing ever.” A Cape student closed by
commenting that students here are “not overloaded, but there’s never nothing to do.”
B. WHS Softball Spring Field Trip Request
Dawn Tarzian addressed the board in response to the softball team field trip request brought forward
at the October 4, 2011 board meeting. She continues to have concerns regarding the trip request,
which does not meet the guidelines set in Policy 2320. WHS softball coach, John Carver, presented
information about how the trip idea came about last spring and how students and parents have been
involved in the planning and fundraising. Elaine Pfeifer expressed her deep appreciation to John for
his dedication to the team and his students. Jim Gadberry said that the coach is “spot-on” with his
philosophical reasons for wanting to take the team on this trip. Blaine Peterson said that while he
loves the idea around the trip and the coaches’ and students’ enthusiasm, the request does not align
with current board policy. The responsibility for the problems with the request lies with many
people, not just the coach, but the board is unable to give approval to this request. Parent Gail
Anderson expressed her frustration that this information was not shared with John prior to now,
since he has been having conversations about the trip with WHS administrators since last spring.
This is very unfortunate for the students and families involved and this disconnect needs to be taken
care of. Dawn Tarzian spoke of how the board assumes liability for the safety of the kids involved
in board-approved travel. She shared concern about the lack of guidance given to a coach planning
this kind of trip, and said that she is sorry that she is unable to support its approval. John graciously
accepted the board’s decision. The board thanked John for all of his work with students, noting that
the district is very lucky to have him.
C. Special Services Program Report
Allan Fleck, Director of Special Services, presented information regarding Learning Assistance
Programs at Cape, Gause Elementary, Canyon Creek Middle School and WHS. He shared Title IA
information and spoke about school-wide programs at both Hathaway Elementary and Jemtegaard
Middle School. He provided statistics related to the Special Education program in the district. The
program is now serving 45 more students than at this same time last year. Currently 14.8% of
district students are being served through the Special Education program, and the district receives
state funding for up to 12.7%. Allan shared 5-year trend information on the number of students
served, students served in separate classrooms and Safety Net applications. The current teacher
caseloads are above average for the region and he and his team continue to look for new ways to best
meet the needs of the students in the program. Allan closed by sharing accomplishments and
challenges in the program.

D. Transportation Update
Theresa Thomsen, Transportation Supervisor, presented information regarding the allocation of
funding for school transportation. She shared state and district data for number of buses and miles
traveled for K-12 public education. She highlighted the changes to the student ridership counting
procedures and explained the new funding formula, which now funds for students within one mile of
school if there is no safe route for them to walk. Teresa overviewed some of the efficiencies in her
program that have led to reduced district subsidy of the Transportation budget. The board thanked
Teresa for all of her work.
8.

BORD WORK SESSION
A. Strategic Planning Process Development
Dawn Tarzian presented a proposed process for strategic planning. She would like to have the
opportunity to receive input about what kind of information the board would like to see gathered,
and asked if any of the board members would like to participate on the strategic planning steering
committee. Blaine responded that he would like to hear the community’s expectations from the
district regarding community interaction, including communication, facilities use, etc. Elaine would
like to know what the district and community see as unique challenges to Washougal. She would
also appreciate local business input regarding opportunities for students who are not planning to
attend college. She is interested in feedback about how success should be measured.
9.

PROPOSAL FOR ACTION
A. Resolution 2011-12-03: 403(b) Revised Plan Adoption
Elaine Pfeifer moved, seconded by Jim Gadberry, to approve Resolution 2011-12-03 regarding the
adoption of the revised 403(b) plan. The motion carried unanimously.
10.
FUTURE AGENDA ITEMS
The board will hear a final report on the Summer 2011 maintenance work, as well as the work
scheduled to occur in the upcoming year at the December 13, 2011 meeting.
11.
BOARD EVALUATION
Blaine Peterson collected the board’s self-evaluation form from each board member present. The
results are attached.
12. RECESS TO EXECUTUVE SESSION
Elaine Pfeifer moved, seconded by Jim Gadberry, to recess to executive session for approximately
15 minutes, returning with no action to be taken. The motion carried unanimously at 9:06 p.m.
RCW 42.30.110 (1)(g), RCW 42.30.140(4)(a) - Negotiations
The board returned from executive session for adjournment only at 9:20 p.m. Elaine Pfeifer moved
to adjourn. Jim Gadberry seconded and the motion carried unanimously.

Dated this 8th day of November 2011

__________________________
President

______________________________
Secretary to the Board

Board Self Evaluation Results
October 25, 2011
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

board member:

The board followed its agenda and did not allow itself to get sidetracked.
The agenda was well planned to focus on the real work of the board.
The meeting started on time and proceeded in a timely manner.
The meeting proceeded without interruptions or distractions.
The board's deliberations and decision-making processes were public.
Participation was balanced; all participated; no one dominated.
Members listended attentively, avoiding side conversations.
Work was conducted in an atmosphere of trust and openness.
Meeting participants treated each other with respect and courtesy.

Point scoring system:
1 Failed
2 Unacceptable
3 Acceptable
4 Commendable
5 Met Best Expectations

1

2

3

5
5
4
5
5
5
5
5
5

5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5

5
5
4
5
5
5
5
5
5

4

5

Average
5.0
5.0
4.3
5.0
5.0
5.0
5.0
5.0
5.0

