Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes February 25, 2020
Generated by Tammy Bengen
Members present: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool, Avneet Pannu
Members absent: Noah Semu
Meeting called to order at 7:00 PM
1. CONVENE
Information: 1.01 Meet and Greet
A board member was available from 6:45-7:00 p.m. to greet audience members.
Information: 1.02 Call to Order
Mr. McLaurin called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and welcomed audience
members. There were approximately 80 members in the audience. The meeting
was held in the library at Vista Middle School, 6051 Vista Drive, Ferndale,
Washington.
Present from the administration were Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn, Assistant
Superintendent for Teaching & Learning Scott Brittain, Assistant Superintendent
for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive Director for Human
Resources John Fairbairn, Executive Director for Student Services Dr. Paul
Douglas and Executive Director for Teaching & Learning Kellie Larrabee.
Information: 1.03 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
At this time, the Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
Action: 2.01 Adopt Agenda
Lee Anne Riddle moved to adopt the meeting agenda.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie Deardorff,
Melinda Cool
3. PUBLIC COMMENT [GC-3.3]
Information: 3.01 Presentation About the Be The One Today Program
Dr. Quinn introduced Anita and Scott Locker. Mr. and Mrs. Locker, Ferndale
Community Engagement Coordinators, made a presentation to the board about
the Be The One Today Program.
Mr. Locker conveyed that Be the One began about seven years ago in Lynden. He
said he and Anita were asked last year to lead the community engagement team
for the program here at Ferndale. He said, for them it's a way to give back to the
community. The Ferndale program began in 2018 and has continued to build
momentum since that time. He explained the mentoring program brings in
community members to mentor high school students during the school day at

1

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes February 25, 2020
the high school campus. This is all done on a volunteer basis. There is a lot of
listening by the mentor and making sure that students know they have someone
they can count on.
Mr. Locker introduced Annie and Jacob Anderson who are assisting with the
coordination of the program. Mr. Anderson said the time mentors spend with
students is intentional. They want to support students in any way they can.
Ms. Anderson said she coordinates 40 mentors with 40 students. This is an
increase from 18 last year. She vets mentors, and interviews both mentors and
mentees. She said she sees a lot of bonding and learning going on. Students feel
heard and valued. Funding for the program is through community fundraising.
When asked what the capacity of the program is, Mr. Locker said 60 persons is
probably what one mentor coordinator can assist. He said, ideally it would be
good to have mentors at the middle school level. Ms. Anderson reported she has
a waiting list of students who want to join the program. She has students contact
her directly, staff members refer students and people her about it through word
of mouth.
Mr. Locker thanked the district, school board and community for their support of
the program.
Information: 3.02 Presentation About Service Dogs in Schools
This matter was postponed and will be rescheduled for a future meeting.
Information: 3.03 Received Public Comment
Mr. McLaurin recognized audience members who may comments to present to
the board.
Ferndale High School Student Hope Jose-Day spoke to the levy, urging the board
to run the levy in April at a rate between $2.00-2.20. She said voter turnout may
be low in August. It's about educating and informing the public as much as we
can.
Andreas Silkiss said she believes the state and federal government has failed to
fund education. She asked if the board and community are ready to fight the
state legislature to get the funding we need. Or fundraise locally to fund what is
needed.

2

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes February 25, 2020
Andrew Gustafson spoke to the levy. He recommended the board rerun the levy
in April at the $1.50 rate for four years. He said student enrollment has been flat.
He said taxpayers are seeing the full impact of the bonds. Assessment valuations
have increased and that the board picked the rate of $2.17 out of a hat. He said, if
the rate of $2.50 passed, the district would still need to make cuts due to the
maximum amount the district can collect.
Nicole Parsons thanked the board for the time to speak publicly. She spoke about
becoming an adult, getting married, purchasing a home, becoming a voter. She
said certain things in society are funded by taxes: schools, fire, police. She asked
where we would be without these services. She appreciates our community, our
country and the board members who give their time to this work. She said
nothing in the world is more valuable than children. She appealed to the
audience to, regardless of the amount, remember they were all educated in the
public school system funded by levies. We now need to gather together and take
care of our responsibilities.
On behalf of the Ferndale Chamber of Commerce, Director Anya Milton read a
statement into the record that spoke to how important it is to fund schools which
is an important part of the community's economic vitality. And, the investment
in K-12 education is for our future leaders and workforce. Ms. Milton's letter is
attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Parent Renee Miller spoke to the levy. She supports running the levy at the $2.25
rate. She talked about all the things that would be lost without the levy: sports,
band, safety items, behavior staff and more. She said the damage of not passing
the levy will take years to recover from. If it does not pass, we are showing our
youth that our community does not support them and their futures.
Brian Fouquet spoke to the levy. He said he appreciated the work that has been
done by the board and administration. The Powerpoint presentation was helpful.
He said we have a system that needs to be funded and supports an April ballot
measure. He said the levy is asking for the community to continue to pay for
what this district has offered. He said he did not know exactly what rate should
be—maybe a compromise at $2.25. He said he believes there are enough people
to support it at that level.
4. FOCUS ON STUDENTS
Information: 4.01 Reviewed the Monitoring Report for Results Policy 1 (R-1) Mission
Dr. Quinn presented the monitoring report for Results Policy 1 (R-1) Mission to
the board at its January 28, 2020 meeting. It was now before the board for review.

3

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes February 25, 2020
Ms. Cool commented that the results for graduation have grown, however the
district did not meet its goal last year of increasing the graduation by 2% each
year. She noted the achievement gap increases for the categories Native, Latino
and low-income. She said many of the programs that support students in these
categories are funded by levy dollars. She recommended splitting the graduation
goal into 1) overall graduation rate and 2) closing the equity gap rate.
Dr. Erickson agreed with Ms. Cool that it was very positive to see the graduation
statistics. He said the increase did not happen without a lot of support from
counselors and support personnel funded by levy dollars. In addition,
community involvement has influenced the results as well. Programs like Be the
One and Lunch with Leaders have a positive impact. He said it's a team effort.
Mr. McLaurin will compile the board's comments about the report into one
document. It will be placed on the board's agenda for approval at its March 31,
2020 meeting.
Dr. Quinn agreed the goal should be split as suggested by Ms. Cool. Also, Dr.
Quinn said there should be a third goal—the five-year cohort graduation rate.
She noted that while the fourth year went down a percent, the five-year rate
went up considerably. Ms. Riddle said the five-year cohort is included. She said
the district is making reasonable progress and will get to 100%. She said the
Jump Start program feeds into this work. Getting students who may need some
additional readiness for school into the classroom earlier will pay dividends in
the end. She thanked Dr. Quinn for the work she has done with teachers and
staff.
Ms. Cool corrected her statement: she meant to address the on-time and
extended graduation goals.
Information: 4.02 Received Monitoring Report for Results Policy 6 (R-6) Early
Childhood Readiness
Dr. Quinn noted that this report was not ready and would be emailed to the
board within the next week or so.
5. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
Information: 5.01 Report on Capital Projects Bond
Dr. Quinn provided a brief report on the Capital Projects Bond. She continues to
send out weekly bond updates. She said Ferndale High School Principal Jeremy
Vincent is involved with the architects refining the schematic design for the
school. A meeting is being set up with city officials to begin the permitting
process. Also, in this month's questions and answers to the board, seven
questions received by the Bond Oversight Committee and answers to those were
also included in the bond update.

4

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes February 25, 2020
6. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
Action: 6.01 Adopted Resolution No. 4-2020 Establishing the 2021-2024 Education and
Operations Replacement Levy
Mr. Deebach and Dr. Quinn presented Resolution No. 4-2020, authorizing the
Education and Operations Replacement Levy ballot measure for the board's
consideration.
Mr. McLaurin noted that the school board has asked the administration to draft
two resolutions for the levy; one with the $1.50 rate and one with the rate left
"blank" to be filled in by the board.
Dr. Quinn said the board had asked for budget data. Mr. Deebach presented a
Powerpoint to the school board that included budget revenue and expenditure
summary from 2014-2015 through 2018-2019. He noted information was based on
actual expenditures. He noted since 2014-2015 revenues have gone up by $18
million and expenditures have gone up by $17 million. Note, the Powerpoint
document is attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Ms. Riddle asked for clarification of why the district has compiled a four-year
prediction. Mr. Deebach explained that as part of the last legislative session, the
state required district to prepare a four-year forecast. The formula used was
dictated by state.
In regard to the levy, Mr. McLaurin asked board members to consider the level
of funding and number of years and when to run the ballot measure. A great
amount of deliberation followed.
Ms. Cool said she was inclined to support running the levy again probably in
April.
Dr. Erickson said the district gets two chances at running the levy. He said the
board asked the community to support the maximum amount the district could
collect based on the information the board had at the time. He said the board
heard a lot of input from the community during the last week.
Mr. McLaurin said that when the forums were held, he was proud to hear the
wonderful things that people said about the programs in Ferndale. He said not
many people spoke against the levy. We also heard from a majority of our
community in the vote that they do not support the levy. He said we need to
think about what our community can actually support.

5

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes February 25, 2020
Ms. Riddle said the feedback she has received as been all over the board—from
run it again to not, from $1.50 to $2.50 and in-between. Voters made a strong
vote. She said one thing that came from the comments was that some people
don't trust the district. She said she struggles with hearing that the district is not
telling the truth. She said she loves paying school taxes because she can see the
results from that. She said she is lucky that she doesn't live paycheck to
paycheck. She got to that place because she went to public schools and
universities, and now, it is her responsibility to support education. She said $2.50
may be too much and $1.50 is not going to be enough. She said her voice on the
board is for those who do not have a voice, don't have a parent that has time or
the capability to advocate for them. That's why she is here.
Ms. Cool said she's heard a lot of input about what's important to people. People
are communicating in a respectful way. There is a lot of complexity to school
funding. What the board knew in November is different than what it knows
now. She agreed that $1.50 was too low.
Mr. McLaurin spoke to how the board derived at the $2.17 rate that was on the
February ballot. He referenced back to when the last bond failed, it was ran again
and it passed. We were able to make up the 120 votes needed for its passage. He
said, this time we are talking about a couple thousand votes. He said we didn't
have the "yes" votes out for the election. He said he is worried about running
another levy in April and not having the turnout that is needed.
Ms. Riddle noted that anything below the $2.50 rate is going to result in cuts.
Miss Pannu said there is a lot of unhappiness at school. Not having sports is not
fair. A lot of students find themselves through extracurricular activities. She said
many students have said they will leave Ferndale. Students are also concerned
about admission to colleges.
Both Mr. McLaurin and Ms. Cool expressed support for running a two-year levy.
Ms. Riddle suggested a four-year levy at the rate or $2.20. Ms. Cool suggested a
rate of $2.00. Mr. McLaurin suggested a rate of $1.50 for two years. The $1.50
would be compromise.
Ms. Deardorff said she supports the rate of $2.50 and running the election in
April.
Dr. Erickson said a rate of $2.20 will bump up taxes. The current rate is $2.17. He
also reiterated that at no point in the bond information did the board promise the
rate of $1.50. That was a projected rate based on the information provided to the
district at that time. He suggested a rate between $2 to $2.10.

6

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes February 25, 2020
The board came to consensus that it would run a levy measure on the April 28
ballot. Next they considered the rate and length of time for the levy.
Melinda Cool moved to establish a two-year levy at the rate of $2.00. By roll call
vote, the motion failed. Vote: Kevin Erickson—Yes; Melinda Cool—Yes; Jessie
Deardorff—No; Lee Anne riddle—no; Andrew McLaurin—No
Andrew McLaurin moved to establish a two-year levy at the rate of $1.50. By roll
call vote, the motion failed. Vote: Kevin Erickson—No; Melinda Cool—Yes; Jessie
Deardorff—No; Lee Anne Riddle—no; Andrew McLaurin—Yes
Jessie Deardorff moved to establish a two-year levy at the rate of $2.25. By roll
call vote, the motion failed. Vote: Kevin Erickson—No; Melinda Cool—No; Jessie
Deardorff—Yes; Lee Anne Riddle—Yes; Andrew McLaurin—No
Melinda Cool moved to establish a two-year levy at the rate of $1.99. By roll call
vote, the motion failed. Vote: Kevin Erickson—Yes; Melinda Cool—Yes; Jessie
Deardorff—No; Lee Anne Riddle—No; Andrew McLaurin—No
Jessie Deardorff moved to establish a two-year levy at the rate of $2.17.
Dr. Erickson said the $2.17 number is not arbitrary. It is the number that we
expected the bond and levy rate would be. The bond savings came from the
fiscal responsibility that the district has produced.
By roll call vote, the motion carried. Vote: Kevin Erickson—Yes; Melinda Cool—
Yes; Jessie Deardorff—Yes; Lee Anne Riddle—Yes; Andrew McLaurin—No
Mr. McLaurin expressed that the campaign starts tonight and we all need to rally
behind this.
Ms. Riddle thanked Mr. McLaurin for leading the board through deliberations
and action on this matter. Also, she said she knows the rate still means there will
be cuts, but not as great.
Ms. Cool reminded those present that as they speak with their neighbors to be
respectful of each other and opinions.
At 9:06 p.m., the recessed for ten minutes.
At 9:16 p.m., the board reconvened into session and continued with the agenda.

7

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes February 25, 2020
Action: 6.02 Adopted Administrative Policy No. 6113 Recognition of Significant Gifts
and Donations
Board members considered the adoption of Administrative Policy No. 6113
Recognition of Significant Gifts and Donations.
Dr. Quinn noted that from feedback received at the board's last meeting, she had
made the suggested changes to the policy.
Dr. Kevin Erickson moved to adopt Administrative Policy No. 6113 Recognition
of Significant Gifts and Donations, as attached hereto and made a part of the
minutes.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie Deardorff,
Melinda Cool
Action: 6.03 Accepted Donation from Nature's Path
Authorized the district to receive a gift, valued at approximately $46,000, from
Nature's Path.
Dr. Douglas explained that Nature's Path provided granola bars to three of the
district's elementary schools, both middle schools and the high school as a snack
supplement for students. They also provided full-size packages of granola bars,
cereal and snack items to every middle school student whose parent had not
declined. Nature's Path is continuing to partner with the district to address food
insecurity.
Lee Anne Riddle moved to accept the gift from Nature's Path of packaged food
items valued at approximately $46,000.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie Deardorff,
Melinda Cool
7. SHARING [GC-7.E.]
Information: 7.01 Student Board Members
Ms. Pannu left the meeting early. On her behalf, Ms. Riddle read her comments
as follows: The high school held its Lunch with Leaders event, its second blood
drive and tomorrow is an early release day. DECA is going to the state
competition. On March 13, the school is hosting a South Asian event. All board
members are invited to attend.
Information: 7.02 Elected Board Members
No further comments were received.

8

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes February 25, 2020
Information: 7.03 Superintendent
Dr. Quinn noted that February 26 was supposed to be the district's directed
professional development day. She said the district decided not to bring in a
speaker, but has planned meetings for staff that will occur in their local
buildings. Executive Team members will be on site at this meetings.
She also noted that the districts continues its schedule of notifying those persons
whose positions may be eliminated for next year. She said the list includes 50 or
more staff.
Information: 7.04 Executive Administration
No comments were received.
8. SUPERINTENDENT CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Action (Consent): 8.01 All administrative matters delegated to the superintendent that
are required to be approved by the Board will be acted upon by the Board via the
consent agenda.
Action (Consent): 8.02 Authorized Vouchers
Authorized Voucher Transmittals:
GENERAL FUND
Vouchers 279023-279130, 279159, 279160-279302 & 279335-279338 in the amount
of $889,779.77
GENERAL FUND PAYROLL
Warrants 477499-477519 dated January 31, 2020 in the amount of $1,663,231.90;
and electronic deposits in the amount of $3,390,199.85 for a total of $5,053,431.75.
CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND
Vouchers 279131 & 279303-279304 in the amount of $47,243.53
A.S.B. FUND
Vouchers 279132-279158, 279305-279333 & 279339 in the amount of $56,956.72
PPT FUND
Voucher 279334 in the amount of $80.00
Action (Consent): 8.03 Approved Hiring of Personnel
Approved the hiring of personnel, per the list attached hereto and made a part of
the minutes.

9

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes February 25, 2020
Action (Consent): 8.04 Accepted Resignations
Approved resignations per the list attached hereto and made a part of the
minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.05 Authorize Leave of Absences
Approved leave of absences, per the list attached hereto and made a part of the
minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.06 Authorized Personal Services and Supplemental Contracts
Approved personal and supplemental contracts for February 2020, per the list
attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.07 Accepted January 2020 Fund Balance Financial Statements
Accepted the January 2020 Fund Balance Financial Statements, as attached hereto
and made part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.08 Adopted Resolution No. 3-2020 Canceling Warrants
Adopted Resolution No. 3-2020 canceling General Fund warrants numbered
276229, 278483, 278606, 278931, 278931, 278936, and 278983, as attached hereto
and made part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.09 Authorized Travel
Authorized travel for the following:
1. Central Elementary School Teacher Sarah Steele and 19 students to attend the
Salish Sea Expeditions field trip in Anacortes, Washington May 27-29, 2020.
Estimated expenses of $4000 will be paid by proceeds from the PTO sponsored
Jog-A-Thon fundraiser and other donations.
2. Ferndale High School Advisor Sharon Dyches, a chaperone and eight students
to attend the culinary Competition at the Oregon Coast Culinary Institute in
Coos Bay, Oregon April 17-19, 2020. Estimated expenses of $1600 will be paid by
the students and ASB and CTE budgets.
3. Superintendent Linda Quinn to attend the ThoughtExchange event
"Leadership Empowerment for Superintendents" March 17-20, 2020 in Scottsdale,
Arizona. There will be no expense to the district.

10

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes February 25, 2020
Action (Consent): 8.10 Revised and Adopted Administrative Policies
Revised the following administrative policies as attached hereto and made a part
of the minutes:
Policy 2145 Suicide Prevention
Policy 3115, Homeless Students: Enrollment Rights and Services
Policy 3116, Students in Out of Home Care
Policy 5253, Maintaining Professional Staff/Student Boundaries
9. BOARD CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Action (Consent): 9.01 The Board will use a consent agenda as a means to expedite the
disposition of routine matters and dispose of other items of business it chooses not to
discuss.
Action (Consent): 9.02 Approved Minutes
Approved minutes of January 14, 2020 special meeting and January 28, 2020
regular meeting, as attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Information: 9.03 Reviewed the Year-to-Date Board of Directors' Budget
Reviewed the Year-to-Date Board of Directors' Budget as of January 31, 2020, as
attached hereto and made part of the minutes.
Information: 9.04 Accepted the Monitoring Report for Operational Expectations Policy 2
(OE-2) Succession Planning
Accepted the monitoring report for Operational Expectations Policy 2 (OE-2)
Succession Planning, as attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
10. EXECUTIVE SESSION
Information: 10.01
Mr. McLaurin announced that no Executive Session would be held and
immediately adjourned the meeting.
11. ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 9:34 p.m.

____________________________________
School Board President

____________________________________
School Board Secretary

11

