Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes June 30, 2020
Generated by Kelly Warner
Members present: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Melinda
Cool, Cuong Nguyen
Members absent: Jessie Deardorff, Avneet Pannu
Meeting called to order at 7:02 PM
1. CONVENE
Information: 1.01 Call to Order
Mr. McLaurin called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. and welcomed online
audience members. He noted this evening's meeting was being held via Zoom
Video Conference.
Present from the administration were Superintendent Linda Quinn, Assistant
Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive
Director for Teaching and Learning Faye Britt, Executive Director for Teaching
and Learning Kellie Larrabee and Executive Director for Human Resources
John Fairbairn.
Information: 1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
At this time, the Pledge of Allegiance was recited
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
Action: 2.01 Adopt Agenda
Dr. Quinn asked to table item 3.02 Presentation of Ferndale-Lynden Masonic
Outstanding Teacher Educator Award until July as the Masonic Lodge was
unable to attend.
The Board requested to table the approval of item 8.08 Authorize School
Improvement Plans in the consent agenda until the July board meeting.
Lee Anne Riddle move to adopt the meeting agenda with the deletion of item
3.02 Presentation of Ferndale-Lynden Masonic Outstanding Educator Award
as well as deletion of item 8.08 Authorize School Improvement Plan from the
agenda.

Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Melinda Cool
3. PUBLIC COMMENT [GC-3.3]
Information: 3.01 Administer Oath of Office to Student Member Cuong Nugyen
Cuong Nugyen will be a junior at Ferndale High School in the fall. The Board
interviewed him and three other strong candidates on June 16. After a difficult
deliberation, the Board selected Cuong for a two-year term on the Board
beginning now and running through the spring of 2022, at which time he will
graduate from FHS.
Dr. Quinn administered the Oath of Office to Cuong Nguyen.
Mr. McLaurin welcomed Cuong to the School Board.
Information: 3.02 Presentation of Ferndale-Lynden Masonic Outstanding Educator
Award
Note, this item was removed from the agenda by the board when it adopted
the meeting agenda.
Information: 3.03 Public Comment Through Online Portal
Mr. McLaurin explained the format of Zoom in receiving public comment. He
said the board would not be receiving oral comments; however participants
could leave comments in the question and answer screen in Zoom. The board
will compile those and answer them at a later date.
Dr. Quinn noted that no comments had been received through the portal prior
to the meeting, but we received an email question earlier today regarding
publishing the comments we gather from the parent survey regarding our
reopening plan in the fall. Dr. Quinn said we will not be publishing them
because they are not anonymous. Some people wrote personal information
about their children and their plan for their children in the fall. She said we
will do our best to summarize and publish the main theme at a later date.
Mr. McLaurin noted for the past 4½ years, Dr. Quinn has also been posting
answers to community questions each month under the Public Comment
section in BoardDocs. You will find the answers to this month’s questions
embedded in tonight’s agenda as well as our website.

4. FOCUS ON STUDENTS
Information: 4.01 No Items
No Items
5. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
Information: 5.01 Receive Quarterly Report from Bond Oversight Committee
Mr. McLaurin noted the purpose of the Bond Oversight Committee will be (1)
to remain engaged with the bond process from start to finish; (2) to receive and
review regular information from the District about the timeline and major
decision points along that timeline; (3) to raise questions and/or make
suggestions about the process to the Board or its designee; and (4) to inform
the public concerning the expenditure of bond revenues. The Bond Oversight
Committee will actively review and regularly report to the community on
whether taxpayers’ money for school construction has been used appropriately
and for the purposes described in the bond resolution approved by voters.
Mr. Riley Cornelsen lead the overview of the report which is attached to the
agenda. He noted they have added an alternate member since the last
report. With the pandemic, the Bond Oversight Committee
changed their function and missed one meeting in March hence the delay in
the report. He noted they have covered a lot of ground via zoom. They are
continuing to come up with ways to communicate with the voters and
stakeholders. They have a monthly dashboard that covers schedule and cost
and are looking to improve on that. They are regularly receiving questions and
providing answers to the public. They will publish them in an FAQ feature
when they have enough to publish.
Mr. Cornelsen provided a recommendation on a debt policy with the report
which is attached to the agenda.
Mr. McLaurin said the debt policy is listed in item 6.01 and will be reviewed
and discussed later in the agenda.
Ms. Milton commented on having Cynthia Weed from K&L in the meeting last
week. She said it was very educating for us in understanding her fiduciary
role. The only part that was lacking for Oversight Committee was that there
was no financial advisor in that conversation. She said there was a layer of
clarity that happened last week which is why they really want to push forward

some sort of debt policy. Ms. Milton noted, it helps provide transparency that
is needed in this community. It was a great eye-opening opportunity and
see thanked whoever invited Cynthia Weed to the meeting.
After discussion of the BOC Quarterly Report, Mr. Cornelsen and Ms.
Milton answered questions from the board.
Information: 5.02 Receive Recommendation from Bond Oversight Committee on
Future Use of Existing Ferndale High School CTE Building
Mr. McLaurin stated that at our May 26 School Board meeting, FHS Principal
Jeremy Vincent presented us with the idea of moving two high school
programs -- SOAR and the Ferndale Virtual Academy -- from the Performing
Arts Center to the current CTE building. He said we asked Jeremy a number of
clarifying questions, but we did not make a decision on his proposal at that
time. We referred the matter to the Bond Oversight Committee, whose purpose
is to represent the perspectives of the voters in matters related to the bond. Mr.
McLaurin asked the Oversight Committee to analyze the costs and benefits of
the proposal and make a recommendation to us.
Mr. Cornelsen lead the discussion with the Board. He said schematically it
makes sense, but we would recommend that space utilized for the program is
upgraded to make an equitable learning environment for students including
mechanical, electrical, plumbing and finish upgrades as necessary bringing it
up to an equitable standard similar to what is being done with the Performing
Art Center. The Bond Oversight Committee didn't feel it was consistent with
the bond language to use that building in its current state for educational
purposes.
Ms. Milton said all of us want to see the student served the best way possible
and still be able to hold true to the promises that were made to the community.
In light of that, we know challenges arise and pandemics happen, but we need
to be able to share with the community the reasons why. We need to make
sure the space is utilized in a way that brings that learning environment up to
an equitable standard for those students.
Mr. McLaurin said we need either to approve or deny the recommendation to
repurpose the old CTE building tonight. Because the decision we make will
impact the ongoing design process, we cannot afford to delay for another

month without negatively impacting the project timeline and possibly even the
project budget. He noted if no decision is made this evening, we will
essentially be saying NO to the proposal. This decision does not require a
formal resolution, but rather the agreement of the majority of the Board. Mr.
McLaurin asked each of the elected Board members to give a thumbs up or a
thumbs down on the recommendation.
Dr. Quinn noted the building can be brought up to a better standard but it will
not be equitable with new construction. Ms. Milton noted the Oversight
Committee made that point as well and recognize that but it needs to be better
than it is right now.
There was a brief discussion regarding the condition of the CTE building.
The board members gave a thumbs up on the recommendation.
Information: 5.03 Report on Capital Projects Bond
Mr. McLaurin said we have already spent quite a bit of time tonight talking
about bond projects. In addition, we will be approving the Ed Specs for the
Ferndale High School later in the meeting, and Dr. Quinn continues to publish
weekly Bond Updates online every Friday.
Mr. Deebach added this Friday is a holiday so there will not be a bond update
this week.
Information: 5.04 Planning for Reopening in the Fall
Mr. McLaurin said Dr. Quinn and her team are focusing the majority of their
efforts on planning for the re-opening of school in the fall in a way that
complies with all of the new health and safety rules. Mr. McLaurin said he
watched State Superintendent Reykdal’s press release on June 11, which was
confusing. He said on the one hand, Reykdal assured parents that all students
would be back in school in the fall but on the other, he described a set of
conditions that would make bringing back all students for business as usual
impossible. Mr. McLaurin said he hopes the members of the Board, and also
the members of our community, have watched the 12-minute video
Superintendent Reykdal published on June 20, which paints a clearer picture
of what back-to-school will probably look like in September. Mr. McLaurin
noted the video has been posted on the District website and Facebook page.

Mr. McLaurin welcomed Dr. Faye Britt to the Executive Team as this is her first
meeting in her new role.
Dr. Britt agreed with Mr. McLaurin that OSPI released some confusing
guidance on June 11th. She said we are bound by these rules on how to open
our schools in the fall. The expectation for reopening in the fall is to ensure we
meet the Department of Health and Labor and Industries guidelines. Dr.
Britt discussed what the schedules may look like according to OSPI guidance
to maintain social distancing. Dr. Britt said we are working with other districts
to see what they are doing and sharing as many resources as we can. She said
one thing we are committed to doing in Ferndale is creating a reopening school
task force. There is a survey on our website to gather input from our families.
Ms. Larrabee shared the current reopening survey results. The PDF is attached
to the agenda. She noted that we surveyed staff and families. The 4 big themes
are: technology, health and safety concerns, scheduling consideration, and
comfort level of staff and community and next steps. We received 1,531 family
responses.
Ms. Cool asked what sorts of things were in the "other" category for the highspeed internet access. Ms. Larrabee said we learned that was a required box
that needed to be checked which is why that percentage is so high. That has
been adjusted.
Ms. Larrabee said there are 3 items we are required to do moving forward.
Face coverings, symptom check, physical distancing requirements. She said
some responses are starting to change and people are becoming more
comfortable with some of the requirements. 960 comments were received on
the survey. The biggest issue people have is wearing face coverings. Ms.
Larrabee discussed scheduling concepts for configuration which are shown in
the PDF attached to the agenda.
Dr. Britt discussed the Reopening Timeline and noted we need to supply OSPI
with a reopening plan. The Board will need to approve the plan 2 weeks prior
to first day of school. She said the Reopening Task Force application has been
posted on the website. The task force meetings will be weekly on Tuesday
nights from 5:00 - 7:00 p.m. for 7 weeks.

Mr. McLaurin asked for 2 volunteers from the Board to participate in the
Reopening Task Force. Melinda Cool and Lee Anne Riddle volunteered to
participate.
Dr. Quinn said they will have weekly administrative team meetings over the
summer which is not a normal process. She recommends a study session in
July and in August with the Board. She said we may also schedule town hall
meetings the end of August.
Information: 5.05 Report on the Development of the 2020-2021 Budget
Mr. McLaurin noted this is an extremely challenging task this year, as we
navigate not only a pandemic but also a failed levy.
Mr. Deebach shared the presentation of the 2020-21 Preliminary Budget which
is attached to the agenda. He noted they have to have a complete version of the
budget put together by July 10th.
There was a discussion regarding the budget and the CARES emergency
education funding for schools.
Mr. McLaurin thanked Mr. Deebach for the report and said he is thankful that
Mr. Deebach and Dr. Quinn are leading the team in keeping our expenses
down and making sure we spend the funds as the public expects. He said if we
didn’t have the cushion of the reserve fund this year, our current financial
situation would be much worse.
6. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
Action: 6.01 Approve Educational Specifications for New Ferndale High School
Mr. McLaurin said the Board was presented with the 244-page Ed Specs
document at our meeting two weeks ago, and they were also posted on
BoardDocs at that time for public review. Mr. McLaurin said as he shared at
our last meeting, the Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction says
the purpose of Educational Specifications is to "define and communicate to
the architect and engineers the District's goals and requirements for what a
given facility should be to accommodate the programs.” Dykeman Architects
completed the Ed Specs for the new FHS facility with input from District staff,
students, and the Ferndale community. He said the School Board is required
to approve them through a formal motion.

The Board asked questions regarding the Ed Specs documents.
Mr. McLaurin said on almost every one of the areas it stated that we would
have working windows with screens. He asked how does that factor into the
school and how would we have working windows with screens throughout
the whole building? Mr. Deebach noted they typically don't open very far. It
is not like what we would have at home. The preferred model not long ago
was to not have operable windows at all so you could control the air flow. Mr.
Mclaurin said he agreed it would affect the HVAC system if people could
open the windows. Mr. Deebach said it is now encouraged to have operable
windows to maintain better air quality. Mr. Deebach said the HVAC system
we are putting in is sophisticated enough that it adapts to that.
Dr. Erickson said he noticed as he was going through the classroom Ed Specs
that there were some places where it talked about teachers having individual
spaces and other places that sounded like it was a group area. He asked if that
is equal between all the groups or are there certain groups that will have
individual spaces and if that had been worked out so it was equitable
amongst teachers. Dr. Quinn noted it's equitable in the sense that everyone is
going to get what they need. Most planning spaces for teachers are in small
teacher workrooms. There are a few places because of the teacher's subject
matter, that may be different.
Melinda Cool move to approve educational specifications for the New
Ferndale High School as attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Melinda Cool
Action: 6.02 Adopt Resolution No. 15-2020 Establishing the 2021-2022 Education and
Operations Replacement Levy
Mr. McLaurin said this agenda item is to pass a resolution establishing the
Educational Programs and Operations Levy that will be on the agenda in
November at a rate of $1.50 per thousand for two years. This is a follow-up to
the motion we passed unanimously at our June 16 Special Meeting, following a
great deal of discussion to set this rate and duration. Once we passed our
motion on June 16, the District did the work of turning our decision into a
formal and legal resolution, which has been posted on BoardDocs.

Dr. Kevin Erickson moved to adopt resolution No. 15-2020 establishing the
2021-2022 education and operations replacement levy
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Melinda Cool
Action: 6.03 Adopt Administrative Policies
Dr. Britt presented policy 3416 to be replaced with a new version. She said we
also made revisions in the new version of Policy 3416 to address Dr. Erickson’s
concern that students should be allowed, with prior approval from parents, to
take an over the counter medication like Motrin or Advil at school. Dr. Britt
said we added the following sentence: “A parent may submit a request for
their student to take OTC medications at school.” We also changed the
wording of item “L” in the list following “The superintendent will establish
procedures for the required and proper administration of the following.” Item
“L” used to read “Permitting, under limited circumstances, possession and
self-administration of medications necessary for student school attendance.”
The new “L” reads “Permitting, as appropriate” instead of “under limited
circumstances.
Dr. Britt said the companion Policy 3423 is on tonight’s agenda for the Boards
review. This policy spells out what parents must do to administer marijuana to
their children at school for medical purposes. She noted that all public school
districts are required to adopt this policy. The version being presented to the
Board is the one recommended by WSSDA.
Dr. Britt we also made the change in Policy 3424, which deals with opioid
related overdose reversal. This policy, which the Board approved at the last
meeting, requires us to have a dose of the medication, Narcan, on hand at the
high school to be administered by a trained school responder in the case of an
opioid overdose. The Board asked, at the last meeting, to include the two
middle schools in the policy, because they felt it was important to have a dose
of Narcan on hand at those schools as well. Dr. Britt noted we have made that
change.
Dr. Britt answered questions from the Board.

Melinda Cool moved to adopt Administrative Policies 3416 and 3423, as
attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Melinda Cool
Mr. McLaurin said the next policy under review this evening is Policy 6023,
which deals with the District’s incurring debt on behalf of the community for
capital bonds and levies. He said that this policy was first presented to the
board at our May 26, 2020, meeting and was subsequently reviewed by the
Bond Oversight Committee at its June 23 meeting. The Oversight Committee
has recommended its own version of the policy, which was stated earlier this
evening by the Bond Oversight Committee members. He noted copies of both
policies have been provided on Board Docs for the Board's consideration.
Mr. Deebach highlights major differences between the 2 versions of policy
6023. The key differences is it calls out specifically for a financial manager and
it refers to a GFOA debt management best practices manual.
Mr. Deebach noted as a reminder from Cynthia Weed's conversation at the last
meeting, it’s not typical that schools districts engage the services of a financial
manager particularly in Washington State because of the way we structure our
bond sales. We have had a relationship with DA Davidson for
decades. Cynthia Weed, told them at their last meeting, it's an added cost for a
financial advisor. Three bond sales would cost approximately $30,000.
Mr. Deebach recommends adding to their governance policies OE-5 (Financial
Planning) and OE-12 (Facilities), which address some of these same topics
to ensure they are reviewed annually.
There was a discussion about the district using a financial advisor. Mr.
McLaurin would like to hear information from other districts on how it has
benefited them. Dr. Quinn and Mr. Deebach will give an update to the Board
at the next regular board meeting.
Action: 6.04 Approve the Contract between the District and Principals' Association
Mr. Fairbairn, Executive Director of Human Resources and also the district's
chief negotiator addressed the Board. He explained the policy OE-4 (Personnel
Administration). He said we are to maintain pay and working condition that

are competitive with our comparable districts which we consider to be those in
the county. We have 3 groups that are up for negotiation this year. Our
administrative group agreed to 0% pay increase and reductions of $30,000 for
professional development for staff to attend national conferences. The
document is loaded to BoardDocs and all contracts will be available on our
district website.
Dr. Quinn noted that our principals are the only principals in the county that
will not be getting a raise this year.
Ms. Riddle acknowledged that Mr. Fairbairn has taken on the role as our lead
negotiator. She said we used to pay a negotiator to come in and work on the
contracts. We have saved that money since Mr. Fairbairn has taken on the lead.
She thanked him for that.
Lee Anne Riddle moved to approve the contract between the District and
Principals' Association, as attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Melinda Cool
Action: 6.05 Ratify Contract Between the District and Ferndale Education
Association
Mr. Fairbairn noted it will take a matter of time to create the contract between
the District and Ferndale Education Association, but a summary of details is
attached to the agenda for review. Mr. Fairbairn discussed the attached
summary and answered questions from the Board.
Ms. Cool said she is not comfortable voting on the contract without
knowing what the dollar amount of gain/losses is for the district.
Mr. Fairbairn explained the 1.6% salary increase is referred to as the Implicit
Price Deflator (IPD) which is the amount the state thinks of as a cost of living
increase.
After further discussion, Mr. McLaurin requested a study session in early July
to discuss this further with the additional information that was requested. No
action is being taken at this time.

Action: 6.06 Ratify the contract between the District and Ferndale Administrative
Assistants' Association
Mr. Fairbairn presented the Ferndale Administrative Assistant Association
agreement which is attached. He noted there will be no change other than to
extend the contract from August 31, 2020 to August 31, 2021. The contract is
being rolled forward as is.
Dr. Kevin Erickson moved to ratify the contract between the District and
Ferndale Administrative Assistants' Association, as attached hereto and made
a part of the minutes.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Melinda Cool
7. SHARING [GC-7.E.]
Information: 7.01 Discussion About Attending the WSSDA Annual Conference
Mr. McLaurin noted in the past they would have already been registered for
this annual conference, however given the current circumstances, this is being
brought to a discussion.
Ms. Riddle will be attending since her registration fee is paid for by
WSSDA Board and not the district.
Mr. McLaurin is not optimistic about getting together in a large group. He will
not attend in person. He asked if the cost of registration is the same for virtual
or in person attendance. Ms. Riddle noted the price is the same because you
would get the same content and have access to that for a year but you would
save on cost of hotel, food, travel etc. by attending virtually.
Ms. Cool would like to attend virtually.
Mr. Erickson asked if he could register and then decide if it will be virtual or
live at a later date.

Ms. Riddle noted student board members are also able to go. Dr. Quinn will
get ahold of people in the next week to find out their individual decision.
Information: 7.02 Student Board Members
Mr. McLaurin explained the sharing process to our new student board
member, Cuong Nugyen, as it is his first meeting.
Information: 7.03 Elected Board Members
Dr. Erickson shared information regarding his family.
Information: 7.04 Superintendent
Dr. Quinn introduced Kelly Warner and Tammy Longstaff to the board as they
are taking on the role of Board support.
Dr. Quinn asked when the Board would be available for study sessions in July
and August and discussed dates.
Information: 7.05 Executive Administration
No items.
8. SUPERINTENDENT CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Action (Consent): 8.01 All administrative matters delegated to the
superintendent that are required to be approved by the Board will be acted
upon by the Board via the consent agenda.
Melinda Cool moved to approve the superintendent consent agenda with
deletion of item 8.08. Motion carried.
Action (Consent): 8.02 Authorize Vouchers
Mr. McLaurin is an Audit Committee Member in Ms. Deardorff's absence.

Authorized Voucher Transmittals:
GENERAL FUND
Vouchers 280130-280209, 280223-280224, 280226-280337 & 280360 in the
amount of $547,422.85
GENERAL FUND PAYROLL
Warrants 477583-477602 dated May 29, 2020 in the amount of $1,669,357.12;
and electronic deposits in the amount of $3,240,581.45 for a total of
$4,909,938.57.
CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND
Vouchers 280210-280214, 280225, 280338-280346 in the amount of $835,531.73
A.S.B. FUND
Vouchers 280215-280222, 280347-280358 & 280361 in the amount of $31,344.37
PPT FUND
Voucher 280359 in the amount of $20.00
Action (Consent): 8.03 Accept Resignations and Retirements
Approved resignations and retirements per the list attached hereto and made
a part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.04 Authorize Leave of Absences
Approved leave of absence per the list attached hereto and made a part of the
minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.05 Authorize Personal Services and Supplemental Contracts
Approve Personal and Supplemental contracts for June 2020, per the list
attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.06 Adopt Resolution No. 16-2020 Canceling Warrants
Adopted Resolution No. 16-2020 Canceling Warrants, as attached hereto and
made part of the minutes.

Action (Consent): 8.07 Accept May 2020 Fund Balance Financial Statements
Accepted the May 2020 Fund Balance Financial Statements, as attached hereto
and made part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.08 Authorize School Improvement Plans
Note, this item was removed from the agenda when it was adopted by the
Board
Action (Consent): 8.09 Authorize interlocal Agreement between Bellingham School
District and Ferndale School District for Title 1A Services
Approved Interlocal Agreement between Bellingham School District and
Ferndale School District for Title 1A Services, as attached hereto and made a
part of the minutes.
9. BOARD CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Action (Consent): 9.01 The Board will use a consent agenda as a means to expedite
the disposition of routine matters and dispose of other items of business it chooses
not to discuss.
Melinda Cool moved to approve the board’s consent agenda. Motion carried.
Action (Consent): 9.02 Approve Minutes
Approved minutes of the School Board Regular Meeting May 26, 2020 School
Board Special Meeting June 1, 2020, School Board Special Meeting June 16,
2020, as attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 9.03 Adopt Resolution No. 12-2020 Racial Balance for New
Ferndale High School Replacement Project
Adopted Resolution No. 12-2020 Racial Balance for the New Ferndale High
School Replacement Project, as attached hereto and made a part of the
minutes.
Action (Consent): 9.04 Adopt Resolution No. 11-2020 Authorizing District Signers
for New Ferndale High School Replacement Project
Adopted Resolution No. 11-2020 Authorizing District Signers for New
Ferndale High School Replacement Project, as attached hereto and made a
part of the minutes.

Information: 9.05 Review Board of Directors' Budget
Reviewed the Year-to-Date Board of Directors' Budget as of May 31, 2020, as
attached hereto and made part of the minutes.
10. ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 9:40 p.m.

___________________________________
School Board President

____________________________
School Board Secretary

