Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes October 21, 2020
Generated by Kelly Warner
Members present: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Lee Anne Riddle,
Melinda Cool, Avneet Pannu
Members absent: Jessie Deardorff, Cuong Nguyen
1. CONVENE
1.01 Call to Order
Mr. Andrew McLaurin called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and welcomed
online audience members. Mr. McLaurin explained that he is turning over the
meeting this evening to School Board Vice President Dr. Kevin Erickson as his
eye is having a hard time focusing after a procedure.
Dr. Erickson reminded audience members that in addition to our business
meetings, our Board also schedules study sessions and special meetings for the
purpose of learning together, digging deeper into particular topics, addressing
an issue that can’t wait until the regular business meeting, and/or discussing our
own governance processes and how we can improve them. Dr. Erickson said we
usually try to keep our study sessions and special meetings to two hours in
length.
Present from the administration were Superintendent Linda Quinn, Executive
Director for Teaching & Learning Dr. Faye Britt, Assistant Superintendent for
Business & Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive Director for Teaching and
Learning Kellie Larrabee and Executive Director for Human Resources John
Fairbairn.
1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
At this time, the Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
2.01 Adopt Agenda
The board considered adopting the meeting agenda.
Mr. Andrew McLaurin moved to adopt the meeting agenda.

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes October 21, 2020
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Melinda Cool
3. FOCUS ON STUDENTS
3.01 Update and discussion about the process of transitioning students back into inperson learning
Dr. Kevin Erickson said one of reasons for tonight’s special meeting is to get a
report on the District’s efforts to start bringing students back into classrooms for
in-person learning and talk about next steps in this process with the District
administration. Dr. Erickson informed audience members, that the Board
received a 22-page document with reopening guidelines prior to this meeting, so
the Board is aware of the detailed planning that has been done to back up the
transition from remote to in-person learning. That document can be found on
BoardDocs under this agenda item.
Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn called on members of the Executive Team to
give an update about the process of transitioning students back to in-person
learning.
Executive Director of Teaching & Learning Kellie Larrabee gave an update on the
first week of in-person learning with our preschool, kindergarten and special
education students who are in the hybrid-learning plan. Ms. Larrabee said our
staff has done an amazing job transitioning back to in-person learning and using
the guidance in the 22-page document.
Ms. Larrabee discussed the timeline for bringing back other grade levels. First
grade will transition to in-person learning beginning October 26, second/third
grade will transition on November 2 and fourth/fifth grade will transition on
November 9.
Dr. Quinn reminded the Board that we also have provisions for students that will
continue with distance learning throughout the school year.
Executive Director of Human Resources John Fairbairn gave an update on the
health and safety precautions the district is taking. Mr. Fairbairn discussed how
we have been working with the Whatcom County Health Department on

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes October 21, 2020
tracking the number of COVID cases in Whatcom County. He said that per
guidance from the health department, we are using the COVID cases reported
for the county not just Ferndale since it is cases per 100,000. Mr. Fairbairn
reminded the Board that a large portion of our staff do not live or shop within
the Ferndale School District boundaries, which is another reason why we should
monitor the number of cases in Whatcom County.
Mr. Fairbairn gave an update on the daily health attestations that students and
staff complete prior to going to school each day. He also discussed the district’s
cohorting procedures, as well as the use of masks and other personal protection
equipment (PPE) staff are required to wear.
Mr. Fairbairn explained the type of PPE that is required in each situation.
Standard PPE for high-risk situations, which may include bodily fluids, will
include masks, face shields, gowns, and gloves. In situations where staff and
students remain six-feet apart, a face covering is sufficient. He said any questions
about PPE are being communicated with a nurse from the health department
that is assigned to our district.
Mr. Fairbairn answered questions from the Board regarding PPE.
Assistant Superintendent of Business and Support Services Mr. Mark Deebach
gave a report on support services. His update included technology, nutrition
services, and transportation challenges.
Mr. Deebach said this is the first year we have supplied 1:1 devices to K-12
students and the first year we have offered, “bring your own device” to families.
The district issued 3,724 devices within a week this fall. 404 devices were for staff
and 3,320 for students. We also converted hundreds of Zoom licenses from the
state account to our district account, which included new features for staff to
learn. Mr. Deebach said we are still working out some issues but there has been a
huge transformation change for staff. We brought in a temporary staff member to
help with the volume of the tech support calls. He said she takes calls from staff,
students and families that have questions regarding the applications that the
district is using. Mr. Deebach said we have just received 700 new Chromebooks
after the long delays. He said the district is now in the process of swapping out
devices with students that have issues with their current device.

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes October 21, 2020
Mr. Deebach said the district has issued approximately 218 hotspots to families.
The county has also been working to make deals with internet providers for
families that qualify for free and reduced lunch at very little cost. He said every
building also has regular tech hours for students who are having tech issues.
Mr. Deebach gave an update on food service. He said we handed out 3,400 food
boxes, which include 10 meals, in September. 1,792 meals were supplied in
person for breakfast and lunch at our safe remote access sites. Mr. Deebach said
USDA extended the waiver that provides free meals through the end of the
school year.
Mr. Deebach gave an update on the challenges we are facing in transportation.
He said we went from having six routes transporting 39 students to our safe
remote access sites the beginning of September to 205 students the last day of
September. He said this last Monday with the addition of the hybrid plan; it
went from 6 routes to 14 routes. We are calling some drivers back in that were
laid off and everyone is driving new routes. He said as we start bringing more
kids back in, those routes will be changing continuously. We are planning to
minimize changes and creating K-12 routes that run one time. Mr. Deebach said
the windows that the bus will be at each stop would be a little wider than they
have in the past because of how things are changing right now.
Mr. Deebach answered questions from the Board.
Executive Director of Teaching & Learning Faye Britt gave an update on the safe
remote access sites that we have been operating since the first day of school. We
have been providing access to our students in many different ways. She said
those sites are continuing as we are bringing back each grade level to in-person
learning.
Dr. Britt gave an update on the athletics programs. She said we will be bringing
in small groups of students for athletics. Our coaches are volunteering their time
right now and not all coaches are available. Dr. Britt said we are having 2 – 3
week sessions where we are cohorting students in small groups and practicing a
couple times a week. They will not be competing with social distancing
guidelines but they are practicing a couple times a week for that social aspect.

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes October 21, 2020
Dr. Quinn added that drama and other programs are also starting up as well.
Dr. Erickson asked Dr. Quinn to explain cohorting. She said it means keeping a
small group of students together so if there is an infection it is kept within those
small groups and does not infect the whole school.
Dr. Britt gave an update on how we are working out the details for bringing in
small groups of secondary students for in-person learning who are in need of
targeted instruction as well as students in our CTE programs.
Dr. Quinn answered questions from the Board.
4. FOCUS ON BOARD OPERATIONS
4.01 Discussion about resuming in-person meetings, especially with regard to ways to
encourage public engagement
Dr. Erickson explained the current Governor’s order suspends all in-person
school board meetings through November 9, 2020, for counties in Phase 2, as
defined by the State, which includes Whatcom County. Our next School Board
Study Session is scheduled for November 10, so unless the Governor extends the
emergency rules again, we may be allowed to meet in person on that date. He
said that while we are still dealing with the pandemic, such an in-person meeting
comes with restrictions. For instance, we probably would not be able to have a
large group of public participants in the same room with us. He said a link to the
Open Public Meetings Act (sometimes referred to as OPMA) Suspension and
Waiver information is included as a resource on BoardDocs. Dr. Erickson stated
that in our discussion tonight, we should consider what we would like to have
happen with our future meetings.
Mr. Andrew McLaurin noted that a great thing about having our meetings in the
Zoom format is it has greatly increased community involvement.
The Board discussed the necessary guidelines for what will need to be done
when we return to in-person meetings to make sure it is safe for everyone. They
also discussed options for live-streaming in-person board meetings.

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes October 21, 2020
Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn asked the Board if they would like to meet inperson or if they prefer to keep the Zoom format as long as it is allowed. They all
agreed that they like the current format of Zoom video conferencing.
The Board would like to continue live-streaming and recording meetings when
we return to in-person meetings.
4.02 Discussion about building School Board outreach to stakeholders
Dr. Erickson said this next item on the agenda is somewhat related to the
previous one. The School Board has committed in both its Strategic
Commitments and its governance policies to work with, not just for, the
members of the Ferndale community to provide the best education possible for
all of the community’s children. He said doing so requires a proactive outreach
plan. We have reserved some time on tonight’s agenda to talk about ways we can
build our outreach to stakeholders, both during the pandemic and afterwards.
Dr. Erickson said the pandemic has forced us to view things differently.
Dr. Quinn gave an update on the home-language informational program Zoom
webinars the district had with our Russian, Punjabi, and Spanish speaking
families. She said they went well. She also gave an update on the every Thursday
Facebook live programs the District has been having.
The Board discussed the importance of the virtual informational meetings we
have been having with the community during the pandemic and how to
continue those going forward.
Dr. Quinn said we have learned to use some tools during the pandemic that
makes the district more accessible to the community. Dr. Quinn is going to
prepare a proposal for the Board to review for continuing outreach to
stakeholders.
4.03 Discussion about monitoring the School Board’s governance policies
Dr. Kevin Erickson said that three years ago this fall, our School Board went
through five days of training to learn how to implement a more effective model
of policy governance. At that time, we adopted a new set of approximately 35
governance policies and an annual work plan for monitoring each of those

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes October 21, 2020
policies. He said when the pandemic struck, we were well into working our plan,
and recognizing the benefits.
Dr. Erickson said in February 2020 the levy failed and in March 2020 COVID-19
entered the local scene and all of our priorities were forced to change. He said
out of necessity, we directed Superintendent Quinn and her team to refocus their
efforts on dealing with the budget shortfall and redesigning the whole education
system; and we put the monitoring of our governance policies on hold. Mr.
Erickson said it is time to make a plan for the future. He said Dr. Quinn posted
the schedule on BoardDocs as a resource for this agenda.
Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn shared the schedule for Governance Policy
Monitoring Reports and reminded the Board where they were at on the schedule
before the pandemic struck. She also reminded the Board that the policies we are
monitoring is the Operational Expectation policies, which are how the Board
wants the district to run. Dr. Quinn said they spent a year interpreting the
policies.
Dr. Quinn asked the Board how and when they would like to jump back into the
Governance Policy monitoring. Dr. Quinn suggested that she could start with the
item on the schedule for December 15 or the Board could pick out the policies
that they would most like to know about. The Board agreed that starting back on
the schedule where we are now is a good idea but they also do not want to add
more to the workload everyone is currently doing.
Dr. Quinn proposed that she would look at the policy that is coming up on
December 15, which is OE-8, and communicate with the Board about it.
4.04 Discussion about the content of future School Board Study Sessions
Dr. Kevin Erickson reminded the Board members that the next special meeting is
scheduled for November 10. Dr. Erickson asked the Board what their thoughts
are for content in the November meeting and what topics they would like to deal
with at future meetings.
It was discussed that at the November 10 meeting they will need to review future
budget plans and have a reflection and action as a result of whatever happens on

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes October 21, 2020
November 3. There are a couple items from the Bond Oversight Committee that
need to be discussed. The Board also said they should talk about priorities and
where the focus needs to be. The Board believes having a conversation about
where the weak points are or where there is a struggle could be very valuable.
Dr. Quinn will report back on a plan for possible outreach and other topics at the
future study session.
5. FOCUS ON DISTRICT COMMUNICATIONS
5.01 Update and discussion about District communication with stakeholders
Dr. Erickson said we have talked about this item a little bit but given that it is
already 9:00 and we try to keep the study sessions limited to 2 hours, he asked
Dr. Quinn to put this item on our next school board special meeting agenda.
6. ADJOURN
The meeting was adjourned at 9:02 p.m.

