Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes June 16, 2020
Generated by Tammy Bengen
Members present: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool, Avneet Pannu
Meeting called to order at 7:08 PM
1. CONVENE
Information: 1.01 Call to Order
Mr. McLaurin called the meeting to order at 7:08 p.m. and welcomed
online audience members. He noted this evening's meeting was being
held via Zoom Video Conference.
Present from the administration were Superintendent Linda Quinn,
Assistant Superintendent for Teaching & Learning Scott Brittain, Assistant
Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive
Director for Student Services Paul Douglas, Executive Assistant for
Teaching and Learning Kellie Larrabee and Executive Director for Human
Resources John Fairbairn.
Information: 1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
At this time, the Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
Action: 2.01 Adopt Agenda
Lee Anne Riddle moved to adopt the meeting agenda.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool
3. PUBLIC COMMENT [GC-3.3]
Information: 3.01 Public Comment Through Online Portal
Mr. McLaurin explained the format of Zoom in receiving public comment.
He said the board would not be receiving oral comments, however
participants could leave comments in the question and answer screen in
Zoom. The board will compile those and answer them at a later date.
4. EXECUTIVE SESSION
Information: 4.01 Reviewed Qualifications of Candidates for Student
Representative to the School Board
At 7:10 p.m., the board convened into Executive Session for approximately
15 minutes for the purpose of reviewing qualifications of the student
candidates for membership on the board. Mr. McLaurin noted that no
action would be taken during the session. Following the session, the board
would reconvene into open session and proceed with the agenda.
The board reconvened into open session at 7:33 p.m.

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes June 16, 2020
5. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
Information: 5.01 Interviewed Candidates for Student Representative to the
School Board
Board members interviewed the following candidates for the student
representative position on the board:
Cuong Nguyen
Heidi Masten
Jacob Peterson
Jordyn Thompson
6. EXECUTIVE SESSION
Information: 6.01 Reviewed Qualifications of Candidates for Student
Representative to the School Board
At 8:20 p.m., the board convened into Executive Session for approximately
15 minutes for the purpose of reviewing qualifications of the student
candidates for membership on the board. Mr. McLaurin noted that no
action would be taken during the session. Following the session, the board
would reconvene into open session and proceed with the agenda.
The board reconvened into open session at 8:41 p.m.
7. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
Action: 7.01 Appointed Student Representative to the School Board
The board considered the appointment of a student to the school board.
Melinda Cool moved to appoint Cuong Nugyen to serve as student
representative on the Ferndale School Board.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool
Action: 7.02 Approved Whatcom County Detention Center Education Program
Interlocal Agreement
Dr. Quinn presented the Whatcom County Detention Center Education
Program Interlocal Agreement for the board's consideration. She noted
that no students have been served at the center since March due to
COVID.
Lee Anne Riddle moved to approve Whatcom County Detention Center
Education Program Interlocal Agreement, as attached hereto and made a
part of the minutes.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool

2

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes June 16, 2020
Action: 7.03 Adopt Administrative Policies
Assistant Superintendent Mr. Scott Brittain presented Administrative
Policy No. 2418 Waiver of High School Graduation Credits for the board's
consideration. The board first saw this policy at its May 26 meeting.
Ms. Cool asked for an example of when a student might ask and be
granted a waiver. Mr. Brittain said for this year a student may request to
waive any class. However, usually it would be for an elective class that
they may not be able to fit into their schedule
Lee Anne Riddle moved to adopt Administrative Policy No. 2418 Waiver
of High School Graduation Credits, as attached hereto and made a part of
the minutes.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool
Executive Director for Student Services Dr. Paul Douglas presented new
Administrative Policy No. 3424 Opioid Related Overdose Reversal for the
board's consideration. He said this policy is in line with legal
requirements now in place in Washington that requires the medication,
Narcan, to be on hand and administered by a trained school responder in
the case of an overdose. All school districts with 2000 or more students
must implement a policy and procedure.
Dr. Erickson asked if there were plans to have this medication at the
middle schools as well. Dr. Douglas said there may be, but it is not a
requirement at this time. Dr. Douglas said Narcan has been in place for
over 30 years as a medication that saves lives. The district receives the
medication free of charge so there is no expense to the district.
Melinda Cool moved to adopt Administrative Policy No. 3424 Opioid
Related Overdose Reversal, as attached hereto and made a part of the
minutes.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool
Executive Director for Student Services Dr. Paul Douglas presented
revised Administrative Policy No. 3416 Medication at School for the
board's consideration. The change in law around the use of medical
marijuana (RCW 69.51A.060) necessitates clarification of its use in schools.
Federal law (Title IV-Part A) prohibits use of marijuana on premises of
recipients of federal funds, including educational institutions.
Dr. Erickson spoke to over-the-counter medications and the strict
procedures around them. Dr. Douglas said these are in place so some

3

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes June 16, 2020
students don't abuse those procedures. Also, the over-the-counter
medication can be taken by students at school as long as a form is
completed and filed with the nurse.
Dr. Quinn said she did not know the legal ramifications at this time. It was
the consensus of the school board to table this policy until its June 30
meeting.
Action: 7.04 Awarded Bid For Secure Vestibule Improvements
Assistant Superintendent for Business and Support Services Mr. Mark
Deebach and Project Manager Mr. Tex Ladish presented the bids the
district received for the Secure Vestibule Improvements project for the
board's consideration. This project went to bid on June 10, 2020. The work
will consist of district-wide vestibule and security upgrades at eight
locations.
Lee Anne Riddle moved to accept the bid of Tiger Construction for
construction of the Secure Vestibule Improvements Project in the amount
of $670,000 base bid, plus $30,000 for alternate no. 1, $41,000 for alternate
no. 2, for a total of $741,000.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool
Action: 7.05 Adopted Resolution No. 14-2020 Issuance and Sale of Unlimited Tax
General Obligation Bonds, 2020
Mr. Deebach presented the matter of adopting Resolution No. 14-2020
Issuance and Sale of Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds, 2020.
This resolution delegates authority to the Superintendent and/or the
Assistant Superintendent, Business & Support Services for a limited time,
to approve the structure of the Bonds, including the interest rates,
maturity dates and principal maturities under such terms and conditions
as are approved.
Mr. Deebach introduced Cynthia Weed from K&L Gates and Dave
Trageser from DA Davidson.
Mr. Trageser said the district has planned three phases of selling bonds for
the total $112 million. Last year, the district sold bonds that generated $47
million for the capital projects fund. Last year’s interest rate was 2.76%.
That was very good. This year it is projected to be even lower 2.25%.
Selling bond in three phases minimizes interest expense, generates interest
earnings and allows us to be mindful on bond market environment. Once
resolution passed we go through the process of selling the bonds.
Mr. McLaurin asked if at this time it was beneficial for the district to sell
bonds. Mr. Trageser said yes. The district moved up the timeline a few

4

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes June 16, 2020
months to capture the current interest rate environment. The
recommendation is to issue the same amount of bonds as planned but
earlier.
Ms. Cool said a suggestion was received from the Bond Oversight
Committee that asked for a financial advisor to be involved and represent
the district’s best interest. She asked if the district was going to do that.
Mr. Deebach said it was not a requirement. He said it would be additional
cost and would not provide benefit to the district.
Ms. Cool asked what a financial advisor would cost. Ms. Weed said that in
this case with the way the structure of sale is set up the only benefit to
using a financial advisor is to have a second voice as a pricing advisor. A
financial advisor would look at it independently to make sure DA
Davidson is doing a good job. The cost for financial advisors is at least in
five figures. Dr. Quinn said she and Mr. Deebach do not believe a financial
advisor is needed.
Mr. McLaurin suggested that Ms. Weed attend the next Bond Oversight
Committee meeting to talk with members about how bond sales work in
Washington State.
Melinda Cool moved to adopt Resolution No. 14-2020 Issuance and Sale of
Unlimited Tax General Obligation Bonds of the District in the aggregate
principal amount of not to exceed $32,500,000, as attached hereto and
made a part of the minutes.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool
Information: 7.06 Discussion About Establishing the Rate and Duration for the
School Programs and Operations Replacement Levy
Mr. McLaurin said that tonight the board continues its discussion about
rerunning the levy. Voters did not approve the levy in February. The
district is allowed to run it a second time in 2020. The board was going to
run it on the April ballot, but due to COVID changed that date to the
November election. At the May 26 meeting, a letter was read from the
Support Ferndale Schools Citizen Committee recommending a $1.50 rate
for two years. We’ve considered a lower levy amount. We agreed we
would decide the rate and duration of the levy at tonight’s meeting.
Ms. Pannu asked that if the $1.50 rate passed, what else do we lose. Dr.
Quinn said cuts we made so far are with the assumption we will not have
a levy at all. If we would pass the $1.50 levy then we may not necessarily
need to make more cuts.
Ms. Cool brought up the fact that we do not yet know what the state is
going to do as far as funding. Dr. Quinn said the state has said for districts

5

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes June 16, 2020
to be prepared for cuts, but we do not know at what levy. Ms. Cool asked
what was cut in 2008. Dr. Quinn said the legislature made cuts, then
added back, then we received federal stimulus money, so it's hard to
know. Mr. Deebach said the district had a couple years at that time to
transition back. He said the district does not know what the cuts will be.
Mr. McLaurin said he doesn't see that a significant improvement will be
seen in our economy before November. Ms. Cool added that people are
hurting, but the district needs to make sure to "hold it together" and get
through this.
To begin, Jessie Deardorff recommended a rate of $2.00. Discussion
followed. Ms. Riddle said the Support Ferndale Schools Committee
suggested $1.50. She said she would support that and that maybe in a
couple years run another levy at a higher level.
Ms. Cool said she thought it would be good to get back to running levies
in February—in 2022. She also liked the length of two years for the
duration.
Mr. McLaurin said he would like a higher rate, however he hears from
community members that $1.50 would work best and a duration of two
years. Dr. Erickson said he too can support the $1.50 rate. Ms. Cool agreed
as well.
Dr. Erickson moved to set the rate of the levy at $1.50 and for a duration of
two years. Motion carried.
8. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
Discussion: 8.01 Reviewed New Ferndale High School Educational Specifications
Mr. McLaurin said the board has already had access to the 244 page
educational specifications document. The purpose is to define and
communicate to the architect and engineers the districts goals and
requirements to accommodate the districts programs. He noted Dykeman
Architects completed the ed specs with input from staff and community
members.
Mr. Deebach introduced Tim Jewett of Dykeman Architects. Mr. Jewett
presented and reviewed the educational specifications for the new
Ferndale High School. Mr. Jewett talked about the process of developing
the specifications and the way they are being used to inform the design of
the school.
At their June 30 School Board meeting, the Board will consider approving
the ed specs.

6

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes June 16, 2020
9. SHARING [GC-7.E.]
Information: 9.01 Board Members, Superintendent and Executive Administration
Sharing
Ms. Pannu noted seniors graduated. Ms. Cool said it was great to see the
students graduate. Ms. Deardorff agreed.
Ms. Pannu asked if there was a date set for the opening of next school
year. Ms. Riddle said the state superintendent is working on that.
Dr. Quinn said the district also is looking at a calendar.
10. EXECUTIVE SESSION
Information: 10.01
At 10:07 p.m. the board convene into Executive Session for approximately
30 minutes to discuss negotiations and staffing issues. Mr. McLaurin
announced that no action would be taken during or following the session.
11. ADJOURN
At 10:44 p.m. the board reconvened into open session and immediately
adjourned.

___________________________________
School Board President

____________________________
School Board Secretary

7

