Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes August 25, 2020
Generated by Kelly Warner
Members present: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool, Cuong Nguyen, Avneet Pannu
Members absent: none
1. CONVENE
Information: 1.01 Call to Order
Mr. McLaurin called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and welcomed online
audience members.
Present from the administration were Superintendent Linda Quinn,
Assistant Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach,
Executive Director of Teaching and Learning Kellie Larrabee, Executive
Director of Teaching and Learning Faye Britt, Executive Director for
Human Resources John Fairbairn, and Director of Communications &
Community Engagement Erin Vincent.
Information: 1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
At this time, the Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
2.01 Adopt Agenda
Ms. Lee Anne Riddle moved to adopt the agenda as written.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Kevin Erickson, Melinda Cool,
Jessie Deardorff
3. PUBLIC COMMENT [GC-3.3]
3.01 Receive Public Comment

Mr. McLaurin noted that written answers to the community questions
received during the month of August can be found under the Public
Comment section in BoardDocs.
No public comments were received prior to this month’s meeting.
4. FOCUS ON STUDENTS
4.01 No items
5. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
5.01 Report on Capital Projects Bond
Assistant Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach
shared an important milestone in the progress of the new FHS Facility. He
shared that the design documents are completed and currently under review
by all the consultants and Bond Oversight Committee. He said all questions,
comments and issues are being noted and complied by Cornerstone. There
will be another review of those items with Value Engineering.
Mr. Deebach shared renderings of what the new high school will look like
which included the following areas:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Birds eye from the west
Main entry
South entry
CTE/athletics entry
Commons
Learning commons
Extended learning spaces
Standard classroom layout
Overall campus layout

After Mr. Deebach’s presentation, he answered questions from the Board.
Ms. Riddle commented that she feels a sense of relief around the safety of our
students compared to the current Ferndale High School.
Mr. McLaurin reminded everyone that Dr. Quinn publishes weekly bond
updates every Friday. He said last week’s update was # 73. Mr. McLaurin
reminded the Board and guest that the bond updates are available on the
District website and you can also sign up to have them sent directly to your

email.

5.02 Update on the Levy Campaign
Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn shared an update of levy items completed
over the past week.
• We printed a one-page levy information sheet
• There was an event at Lummi Nation on Saturday where the one-page
information sheet was distributed at a drive-through resource fair
• One-page information sheets and voter’s registration are being offered
at device distribution
• Principals will be putting information in their newsletters
• There has been periodic reminders on Facebook
• We are developing a plan for regular news on the website
• We are working on designing a one-page information sheet that we can
mail
• Facebook live is happening every Thursday and we will devote a
couple of those to levy information
Mr. McLaurin reminded everyone that the November election date is ten
weeks from today. He said in the midst of everything that is going on with
opening school during a pandemic and everything else, we cannot lose sight
of the need to get information to our constituents. Mr. McLaurin said he
encourages his fellow Board members to look for ways to join in this effort.
Information: 5.03 Update on Reopening Schools
Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn listed items that were completed over the
past week.
• Developed daily schedules for students at each grade level
• Developed plans for the first two weeks of school
• Published schedules for handing out devices to our secondary students
 hard copy, through Skyward message center, and on the website
• Prepared a number of hard-copy handouts to distribute to Lummi
families at a drive-through event in the Lummi Nation on Saturday
(August 22) and to secondary families at device distribution sites this
week

• Launched a new Reopening School 2020 page on our website for
families to get back-to-school news and have been adding to it every
day
 There is also a place at the bottom for people to submit
questions.
• We held three informational Zoom meetings for Russian-speaking,
Punjabi-speaking and Spanish-speaking families.
• Scheduled a Zoom meeting with Lummi families
 Mr. Vincent, Ms. Leighton, Mr. Burnett and Mr. DeWeber will
join Dr. Quinn for the Zoom
Dr. Quinn said our biggest challenge right now is the connectivity piece and
having enough devices. She said we ordered devices last spring and were told
they would arrive in August but now they are saying sometime in September.
She said we have figured out how to revive the old Elite pads so we can get a
device in people’s hands for the first week of school.
Dr. Quinn reported that we are in the process of developing a Safe Remote
Learning site in our schools for those families that are not able to do remote
learning from home. She said we will use para-educators to supervise the
students.
Dr. Quinn reported that she and the other six Whatcom County
Superintendents are meeting with representatives from the Health
Department tomorrow to talk about metrics and whether or not we can start
thinking about some level of phasing into in-person learning.
Dr. Quinn talked about student enrollment. She said we have about 4000
surveys returned and we budgeted at 4450. Dr. Quinn noted a 10% reduction
in enrollment would be devastating but fairly manageable. Dr. Quinn said the
elementary schools are down about 40 students per school. She said we are
still working on contacting all the students we have not heard from.
Dr. Quinn answered questions from the board.
Information: 5.04 Update on the addition of Land Acknowledgement at Board
Meetings

Mr. McLaurin reminded the Board that at our meeting the end of July, Dr.
Quinn and Ms. Deardorff agreed to do some additional research, in
cooperation with officials from the Lummi Nation, and to come to this
meeting with a suggested process for moving forward.
Ms. Deardorff said that she met with the tribal council who let us know more
about the protocol for the land acknowledgement. She said we are going to
share with them the piece we have been using and see if they want to add to
it. We will then bring it before the council for approval in some type of
ceremony and acknowledgment for the tribe.
Ms. Deardorff noted that we are waiting for the cultural department to set up
a date to meet with them again.
Dr. Quinn answered questions from the Board.
Discussion: 5.05 Discussion regarding Zoom recording/broadcasting of in-person
Board Meetings.
Mr. McLaurin asked the Board to consider a procedure for recording and
sharing all of our meetings online even when we return to holding our
meetings in-person.
The Board discussed the topic.
All Board members agreed we should record and broadcast the meetings
when we go back to in-person meetings.
Dr. Quinn will research options that are available for recording in-person
Board meetings.
6. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
Information: 6.01 Update on State-Level Policy Discussions
Ms. Riddle gave a broad overview of the conversations between legislators
and state and local board members. There is a PowerPoint available on
BoardDocs with more details.
Ms. Riddle said the group was made up of five school board members,
members from the State Board of Education, a number of senators and
representatives from Washington State, OSPI members and a number of other
government organizations in the state of WA. She said they met 8 times all

together. It was high-level discussions about the ramifications of what is
happening today with the pandemic and schools and are their bills that the
legislature would consider putting forward that can help. The topics
included: Graduation Pathways and Credit Requirements, Connectivity,
Instructional Days and Hours, Legal Liability, Fiscal Considerations, and
Child Care.
After Ms. Riddle’s overview, she answered questions from the board
Action: 6.02 Adopt Resolution No. 21-2020 Temporary Layoff of Select
Transportation Employees
Mr. McLaurin said Resolution No. 21-2020 deals with the need to lay off
Transportation Department personnel. He said it is my understanding that
the District has been involved in conversations with the leadership of
Teamsters about this situation for several weeks. However, a final decision to
bring this resolution to the School Board was not made until late last week.
Mr. McLaurin said out of respect for the employees who are impacted by the
decision, the District asked that they have time to contact each of them
personally before posting this resolution on BoardDocs. He said those
personal contacts were made over the weekend.
Executive Director for Human Resources Mr. John Fairbairn spoke to the
board about the resolution.
Assistant Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mr. Mark Deebach
explained the way the state funding works for transportation. He said we
report to OSPI how many miles we drive and how many students are on the
bus. Last year in the spring the state implemented special rules that allowed
us to use fall and winter counts for the spring so we did not lose any ridership
and allowed us to keep our bus drivers on the payroll to assist with other
essential functions. He said they have made it clear this year that they have
not put those special rules in place or suspended the rules. The first part of
this year is based on the spring ridership report, which is actually the
fall/winter report from the previous year. He said we are going to receive
funding from the state for transportation for the first half of the year. The
problem is that once we hit the transition from the budget numbers to the
actual ridership, it will be extremely low and we will not receive any funding.

Mr. Fairbairn said we have been meeting with the teamsters weekly and tried
to figure out something else we can do. One of the drivers said we see what
you need to do; you need to temporary lay us off until we can drive kids
again. Mr. Fairbairn said the truth is because of the pandemic, we are not
transporting kids, we do not have activities and we will not get the funding
for transportation. He said due to the governor’s order last spring, our drivers
will continue to get medical benefits.
Mr. Fairbairn answered questions from the board.
52 bus drivers will be temporarily laid off.
Dr. Kevin Erickson moved to adopt resolution 21-2020 as attached hereto and
made a part of the minutes.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Melinda Cool,
Jessie Deardorff
7. SHARING [GC-7.E.]
Information: 7.01 Student Board Members
Avneet shared that she received her school device yesterday. Avneet said she
loved the reopening plan webpages and was excited to see a page for Seniors.
She also shared that she is finally starting driver’s ed this year.
Cuong shared that he liked the drawings of the new Ferndale High School
that were shared early in the Board Meeting.
Information: 7.02 Elected Board Members
Ms. Melinda Cool commented that the Reopening Plan webpage is fantastic.
Ms. Lee Anne Riddle noted that even though buildings are not open right
now the work is still going on which is why the passage of the levy is so
important.
Information: 7.03 Superintendent
None

Information: 7.04 Executive Administration
Mr. Deebach shared that the recent sale of the bond went great and the
money is in the bank as of today.
8. SUPERINTENDENT CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Action (Consent): 8.01 All administrative matters delegated to the superintendent
that are required to be approved by the Board will be acted upon by the Board via
the consent agenda.
Ms. Melinda Cool moved to approve the superintendent’s consent agenda as
presented.
Final Resolution: Motion carried.
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Melinda Cool,
Jessie Deardorff

Action (Consent): 8.03 Adopt Resolution No. 17-2020 Canceling Warrants
Adopt Resolution No. 17-2020 canceling General Fund warrants numbered
272956, 272962, 273050, 273971, 274196 and 279956, and Associated Student
Body Imprest checks numbered 20102 and 20691, as attached hereto and
made part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.04 Adopt Resolution No. 20-2020 Canceling Warrants
Adopt Resolution No. 20-2020 canceling General Fund Warrants numbered
280145 and 280382, and Associated Student Body warrant numbered 279151,
as attached hereto and made part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.05 Approve State and Federal Grant Applications Assurances
Approve general assurances for various state and federal grants that the
district will apply for. When applying for those grants, the board is
committing the district to meet any and all requirements of those grants.
Some state and federal grants require specific board approval, those grants
are: Highly Capable Program Annual Plan, Perkins Application Plan and
State Transitional Bilingual Instructional Program.

General assurances for all federal and state programs are attached for the
board's approval.
Action (Consent): 8.06 Authorize School Improvement Plans
Approve 2019-2020 School Improvement Plans, as attached hereto and made
a part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.07 Approve Hiring of Personnel
Approve the hiring of personnel, per the list attached hereto and made a part
of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.08 Accept Resignations and Retirements
Approve resignations and retirements per the list attached hereto and made a
part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.09 Authorize Leave of Absences
Approve leave of absences, per the list attached hereto and made a part of the
minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.10 Authorize Personal Services and Supplemental Contracts
Approve Personal and Supplemental contracts for August 2020, per the list
attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.11 Accept July 2020 Fund Balance Financial Statements
Accept the July 2020 Fund Balance Financial Statements, as attached hereto
and made part of the minutes.
9. BOARD CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Action (Consent): 9.01 The Board will use a consent agenda as a means to expedite
the disposition of routine matters and dispose of other items of business it chooses
not to discuss.
Ms. Melinda Cool moved to approve the board consent agenda as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion carried.
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Melinda Cool,
Jessie Deardorff
Action (Consent): 9.02 Approve Minutes

Approve minutes of the July 28 Regular Meeting, August 4 Special Meeting,
August 18 Special Meeting-Public Hearing and August 18 Special Meeting, as
attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action (Consent), Information: 9.03 Review Board of Directors' Budget
Review the Year-to-Date Board of Directors' Budget as of July 31, 2020, as
attached hereto and made part of the minutes.
10. ADJOURN
Meeting was adjourned at 8:23pm.

__________________________________
School Board President

_________________________________
School Board Secretary

