Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes November 10, 2020
Generated by Kelly Warner

Members present: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Lee Anne Riddle, Melinda Cool,
Cuong Nguyen, Jessie Deardorff
Members absent: Avneet Pannu
Note: Jessie Deardorff joined the Zoom meeting at 7:40 PM.
1. CONVENE
1.01 Call to Order
Mr. Andrew McLaurin called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and welcomed
online audience members.
Present from the administration were Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn, Assistant
Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive
Director of Teaching & Learning Dr. Faye Britt, Executive Director of Teaching &
Learning Kellie Larrabee and Executive Director for Human Resources John
Fairbairn.
Mr. McLaurin reminded audience members that the School Board holds its
regular business meetings on a regular schedule. He said we meet at 7:00 p.m. on
the last Tuesday of every month except December, when we meet on the last
Tuesday before Winter Break, which is December 15 this year.
Mr. McLaurin said in addition to our business meetings, which are the times
when we entertain formal public comment, our Board also schedules study
sessions and special meetings for the purpose of learning together, digging
deeper into particular topics, addressing issues that can’t wait until the regular
business meeting, and/or discussing our own governance processes. He said
these study sessions and special meetings are not held according to a regular
schedule. He said they are called when needed on a date that fits the calendars of
Board members. Mr. McLaurin said they are always announced, and the agendas
are always published in advance, according to the Open Public Meetings laws.
Mr. McLaurin also noted that the study sessions and special meetings are kept to
two hours in length.
1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
At this time, the Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
2.01 Adopt Agenda

School Board Special Meeting Minutes November 10, 2020
Generated by Kelly Warner
The board considered adopting the meeting agenda.
Dr. Kevin Erickson moved to adopt the meeting agenda as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Melinda Cool
3. FOCUS ON STUDENTS
3.01 Acknowledgement of Native American Heritage Month
Mr. McLaurin reminded the board that November is Native American Heritage
Month. He called on Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn to share what the District
is doing to commemorate the month.
Dr. Quinn said for the past 30 years, our nation has celebrated November as
Native American Heritage Month. She said it gives us a special opportunity to
shine a light on the rich culture, traditions, history, and contributions of Native
people. She said more importantly, it reminds us of the need to continue to
educate ourselves about the tribes that are part of our State and Nation and the
treaties that define our relationship to the land and to one another.
Dr. Quinn said like everything else, we are reinventing our commemoration of
Native American Heritage Month this year as a result of the pandemic. She
reminded the board that in past years, students in the Cheskwin and Oksale
classes at Ferndale High School have put on an all-school assembly and our other
schools have also hosted in-person assemblies, lessons, and activities which we
were unable to do this year.
Dr. Quinn gave an overview of the things the district is doing in this virtual
world, which are outlined below:
•
•
•

•

Dr. Quinn put out a letter to all District staff about Native American Heritage
Month and attached a copy of the Point Elliott Treaty.
We have created Facebook posts under the phrase “Did You Know?” for each
school day for the rest of the month with facts about Native Americans.
Smak i’ ya’ our lead Lummi Language teacher is working with his high
school students to create some short videos of interviews with members of
the Lummi Nation, which we also plan to post on Facebook.
We are sending out resources to teachers, including film footage created by
Children of the Setting Sun Productions and virtual fieldtrips available
through the Smithsonian Native American Museum in Washington D.C.

School Board Special Meeting Minutes November 10, 2020
Generated by Kelly Warner
•
•

•

We will be launching our brand new 4th and 5th grade Lummi Language
classes at Eagleridge and Skyline.
We remain hopeful that the process Jessie Deardorff initiated with the Lummi
Culture and Language Department to develop a land acknowledgement can
continue with a discussion and possibly a decision at our November 24
School Board meeting.
We would like to use this heritage month to begin collaborative effort with
the Lummi Nation to plan the 2021 commemoration of Treaty Day, which is
just around the corner on January 22.

Dr. Quinn mentioned other news about our partnership with the Lummi Nation, which
is outlined below:
• Dr. Quinn said we are still working to fill the two Native Liaison positions we
posted over a month ago. One of the two people we offered the positions on the
first round withdrew her name to take another position. Dr. Quinn asked if the
positions have been filled. Dr. Faye Britt confirmed that the two positions have
been filled.
• We are working to schedule a joint meeting between the LNS Education Board
and the Ferndale School District Board in December.
• One of the purposes of the joint meeting will be to reaffirm our Joint Policies and
Procedures (JPPs). Dr. Quinn mentioned in her letter to the Board last night, the
federal government has asked us to make some changes in our JPPs and told us
we will need to approve a modified version of the JPPs/IPPs before we can claim
any more of the Impact Aid funds we have been allocated or submit our next
application.
• The next Impact Aid application is due in January 2021. Heather Leighton, Mark
Deebach, and Dr. Quinn will be collaborating on it.
• Dr. Quinn acknowledged a huge debt of gratitude to the Lummi Nation for the
way they supported the levy. Not only through the work of Children of the
Setting Sun Productions but the large number of people that turned up to
support Ferndale Schools.
3.02 Update on Reopening School
Dr. Quinn called on the Executive Team Members to provide updates on
reopening school.
Executive Director of Teaching & Learning Ms. Kellie Larrabee reported on the
return of the fourth and fifth grade students who returned to in-person learning
this week.

School Board Special Meeting Minutes November 10, 2020
Generated by Kelly Warner
Ms. Larrabee said they are continuing to check in regularly with groups and
teams to see how things are going. She said we are continuing to teach new
expectations to students using the new health & safety COVID protocols. She
noted we now have K – 5, ELL and special education students in the buildings
and we continue to monitor the COVID numbers closely with health & safety.
Ms. Larrabee said we are also monitoring the numbers of our student enrollment.
She said we have lost over 300 students to a variety of programs. 136 of those
students transferred out to join neighboring Parent Partnership Programs. Ms.
Larrabee reminded the Board that in the spring, we chose to cancel the Parent
Partnership Program for financial reasons. Ms. Larrabee said we will be able to
reinstate the Parent Partnership Program by using existing staff members. She
said we have heard a need from our community that if we had this option
available, they would take advantage of the program. We are moving forward
with the Parent Partnership Program and plan to be up and running in January.
Ms. Larrabee answered questions from the Board.
Assistant Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mr. Mark Deebach
said that three weeks ago we received an email from Larry Francois, ESD
Superintendent asking if we need computers. He said the governor was
exploring options to buy computers for the school districts across the state. Mr.
Deebach said we were notified last week, that we were one of 54 schools in the
state that will be receiving computers purchased by the Governor. We will be
receiving 1000 computers the end of this month. Dr. Quinn said that number
represents the amount of students that are using their own computers this year,
which will allow us to have a computer for each student.
Executive Director for Human Resources Mr. John Fairbairn reported on the
COVID-19 cases in the different counties. He said tonight the Department of
Health website shows we are experiencing more cases in Whatcom County but
not nearly as much as other counties. He said this summer we made a
comprehensive plan for the district and we have held to the plan tightly. Mr.
Fairbairn said if we do well with the PPE, keeping our distance, etc. we are just
as safe in the hybrid-learning model as the people who are in remote learning
model.
Executive Director of Teaching & Learning Dr. Faye Britt reported on the Safe
Remote Access Sites and plans for in-person learning at secondary schools. She
said our safe remote sites are continuing to be maintained during the hybrid-

School Board Special Meeting Minutes November 10, 2020
Generated by Kelly Warner
learning model. Dr. Britt said we are looking to find opportunities that benefit
our kids and stay within COVID guidelines.
Dr. Britt said we are identifying students in the secondary level that require
additional support. Wednesdays will be days we can bring in some of those
students that need additional support. Dr. Britt reminded the Board about the
changes in the schedule at the high school during distance learning this year.
Dr. Britt said the middle school teams are identifying students that need more
support in core content areas. She said we will be inviting students from both
levels back to in-person on Wednesdays beginning December 2nd.
Dr. Britt gave an overview of the activities and athletics that are being held for
secondary students. She said we will keep looking at options for bringing
students back to in-person learning when it is safe to do so.
Dr. Quinn said we learned that FHS students are planning a march. The march
will take place this Friday, November 13. She said it is a march to reopen schools.
The students will be starting at FHS and will march to the bridge. She said they
are exercising their freedom of speech and eager to come back to in-person
learning.
The Board briefly discussed the grading system and noted they are eager to hear
how our students are doing.
4. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
4.01 Review of the outcome of the recent levy election and its implications for the
district
Mr. McLaurin thanked the community for the overwhelming 62.75% approval of
our levy. He said passing the levy is a relief; however, it does not make us whole.
The difference between the $1.50 rate that passed and the $2.50 rate we asked for
the first time around is substantial. He said we are also dealing with a budget
shortfall created by a decrease in enrollment this fall. Mr. McLaurin asked Mr.
Deebach to give an overview of the budget.
Assistant Superintendent of Business and Support Services Mr. Mark Deebach
shared a brief PowerPoint about 2021-2022 levy implications.

School Board Special Meeting Minutes November 10, 2020
Generated by Kelly Warner
Mr. Deebach reminded the board that the levy will run 2 calendar years so when
we talk about school year budgets; we are talking about 2 calendar years.
Mr. Deebach said in February we asked voters to approve a $2.50 per thousand
of assessed value levy amount, which would have meant $11.3m in revenue for
the 2020-2021 school year. Even at the requested rate of $2.50 we planned to use a
portion of our reserve fund to balance the budget. Mr. Deebach said when we
built the 2020-2021 budget we had a portion of our levy revenue for the last half
of 2020. Mr. Deebach said in the spring, we cut $4.2m out of our operating
budget for the 2020-21 school year. He noted that our enrollment is down this fall
by 300 FTE, which equates to $2.8m less in revenue.
Mr. Deebach said we passed the levy at the $1.50 so for the 2020-2021 school year
we will collect $9.8m in revenue. For the 2021-22 school year, we will collect
$8.3m in revenue at the $1.50 rate.
Mr. Deebach presented a summary of the 2020-2021 school year budget. He said
passing of the levy at $1.50 puts us almost even with the cuts that we made this
year and we will not need to make any additional devastating cuts. He noted the
levy revenue will be lower in 2021-2022 than it is in 2020-2021.
Mr. Deebach answered questions from the board.
Mr. McLaurin said while passing this recent levy has prevented us from making
deeper cuts to our staff and programs that would have been very damaging, we
are still going to need to keep our belts tightened. He said we didn’t ask for the
rate of $1.50 because that’s all we needed; we asked for the lower rate in
recognition of the fact that these are hard times for many members of our
community, and just like them, the school district has to get by on less, which
ultimately means we will be able to do less.
4.02 Adopt Resolution No. 26-2020 Recertifying the 2021 Levy
Mr. Deebach explained the 26-2020 resolution. This resolution allows us to collect
the funds for the Educational Programs & Operations Levy in 2021, which
passed on November 3.
Ms. Melinda Cool moved to adopt the meeting agenda as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Melinda Cool, Jessie
Deardorff

School Board Special Meeting Minutes November 10, 2020
Generated by Kelly Warner
4.03 Response to a list of issues raised by the Bond Oversight Committee
Mr. McLaurin said this item on the agenda is a discussion of, and response to,
several issues presented to the Board in a letter from the Bond Oversight
Committee last summer. Mr. McLaurin reminded the Board that he attends the
Bond Oversight Committee to represent the School Board and he has already had
a chance to discuss the issues with the committee but he would like to bring
them to a discussion of the full Board.
Mr. McLaurin began by acknowledging that the Oversight Committee sent their
letter last summer while we were still adjusting to our new pandemic-required
protocols. When we first transitioned to online meetings, all government
agencies were asked to use their meeting time to attend to essential business
only. He said in Ferndale, our essential business was focused on reinventing
education for our children and dealing with the impacts of the levy failure. Mr.
McLaurin said for these reasons, there has been considerable lag time between
the initial receipt of the letter and this full Board discussion.
Mr. McLaurin reminded the Board about the four issues raised by the Bond
Oversight Committee, which are outlined below:
1. The first issue was use of technology. The committee expressed their
disappointment about the fact that the June 23 meeting of the Bond
Oversight Committee was delayed by 50 minutes because District staff
could not get the webinar working. Committee members called this a lack
of professionalism and lack of respect for the community volunteers who
were sacrificing their time support the District.
The Board discussed this issue. They apologized that this occurred and asked
that everyone gives each other a little grace during this time with the shifting of
staff and the pandemic.
Dr. Quinn noted it was not a lack of preparation; we lost all of our technology
department and other staff members that had helped with those meetings at that
time and we could not offer the same level of support. She is very apologetic that
that happened but it was not due to lack of preparation.
The Board agreed we have come a long way with technology since that time.
Mr. McLaurin clarified that none of these issued impeded on the work of the
committee. He said they have been able to function fully.

School Board Special Meeting Minutes November 10, 2020
Generated by Kelly Warner
2. The second issue focused on the use of a third-party financial advisor for
bond sales. The BOC called this a best practice and expressed their dismay
that the District did not automatically spend taxpayers’ money to hire an
independent advisor for our first bond sale in June 2019.
The Board agreed that although the financial advisor was great affirmation that
the bond sale went really well it did not change the outcome of the sale. The
Board agreed the money should not be spent for a financial advisor on every
bond sale. They will look at the market changes as it gets closer to the next sale
and reassess.
3. The third issue dealt with fiscal planning. The BOC referenced the fouryear budget the District is required to submit to OSPI, noting that it did
not align with budget numbers the District supplied to the BOC for
planning purposes. They expressed concern about (a) the shrinking
general fund, (b) future funding for maintaining the new high school and
other capital improvements, and (c) contracting out larger maintenance
projects instead of following their recommendation to have internal staff
complete those projects.
Mr. Deebach said that the conversation we had at the time was that we do not
have a lot of internal capacity to do all this work. Some of it we were able to pull
inside and use maintenance staff but some of it, with the advice of counsel, we
have go to bid. Dykeman and CSG helped take care of that project since we did
not have expertise internally to manage the size of the project and bid law
requirements.
Mr. Deebach also spoke about the four-year budget forecast, which is a state
requirement for OSPI. He said there are two ways to run the forecast; you can
run the numbers forecast to grow where your current budget is going forward,
which case you have a big deficit at the end of 3 years. Alternatively, you make a
bunch of reductions to your budget to make sure it balances every year. Which
means you make a budget forecast on paper that you have not actually made. He
said the four-year forecast tool is not particularly useful.
Dr. Quinn said the legislature put it in place to show that full school state
funding of schools was not really full state funding of schools. She said to
forecast out, if you continue to do what you are doing, where will you be in four

School Board Special Meeting Minutes November 10, 2020
Generated by Kelly Warner
years. Several years ago, when everyone did that in the whole state every district
would be insolvent. She said it is part of what caused the legislature to up the
levy lid. Mr. Deebach agreed that was exactly what happened. Dr. Quinn said
everyone was encouraged to show the budget grow going forward but that is not
reality. She said all of the board member probably agree that the steepest
learning curve was board finance because there are so many complications to it.
Dr. Quinn understands why people would look at the 4-year budget forecast and
say that is not the numbers you are giving us but that is an exercise that we do.
Mr. McLaurin said the Bond Committee want to make sure not only are we
building the best school we can for the money, they also want to make sure we
maintain that building for years to come.
The Board continued to discuss the four-year budget briefly.
4. The fourth issue dealt with programmatic changes to the bond plan
introduced in May 2020, specifically related to using the old CTE building
for Golden Eagle Academy and Ferndale Virtual Academy. The BOC’s
letter says they understand how the needs of programs can change, but
the District needs to provide a solid rationale for the change.
Mr. McLaurin said we had that discussion since this was brought up and the
Bond Oversight Committee approved using the building for the Golden Eagle
Academy.
The letter also asks several questions and makes one recommendation. The
questions are:
• Where is the Capital Improvement Plan?
• Where is the Maintenance Plan that supports the aging buildings and care
for the newest facilities?
• How does the District appropriately and actively plan for the future?
Mr. McLaurin opened the questions up for discussion.
Ms. Riddle asked if the Maintenance Plan was presented to the BOC. Mr.
McLaurin said the fact that we had one that was used as a guide in 2015 was
shared. Ms. Riddle noted that the plan is there for when we are able to do it.

School Board Special Meeting Minutes November 10, 2020
Generated by Kelly Warner
Ms. Cool said we should create a date goal or outline when we plan to take care
of maintenance.
Mr. McLaurin said while that is something we want to spend time and look at he
does not feel this is the time to focus on that, as this is the time we need to spend
on the multiple ways we are teaching our children.
There was further discussion on the maintenance plans and thirty-year plan.
Mr. McLaurin said lastly, the BOC makes the following recommendation:
“The School Board could consider creating a committee that helps support this
type of planning, both for capital projects as well future budgets. Not a task
force, which serves the purpose to complete a task in a limited timeframe, but an
advisory committee appointed and committed to serving a longer period that
develops short and long-term plans, and reviews and recommends these plans to
the Board. This would help inform the vision of the Board who then can present
these ideas to the administration for implementation, where they see fit.”
Mr. McLaurin said his thought is that this is what the Board is supposed to be
doing as far as planning and managing the school’s budgets. The Board agreed
that this is the Boards responsibility.
Ms. Riddle said we have so many constraints and there is so much education
involved up front. This is part of the ongoing questions how do we gather input,
how do we listen to our stakeholders, what is the way for them to contribute
their thoughts and for us to provide some education back.
Mr. McLaurin said we have discussed this and we are choosing not to develop
another oversight committee at this point.
Mr. McLaurin gave a summary of what was discussed regarding these topics
tonight.
5. FOCUS ON BOARD OPERATIONS
5.01 Discussion of the upcoming WSSDA Fall Conference
Mr. McLaurin called on Ms. Riddle who is on the WSSDA Board. She said the
conference starts next Wednesday, November 18. The first day is a pre-

School Board Special Meeting Minutes November 10, 2020
Generated by Kelly Warner
conference session. The opening session is Wednesday night with the opening
keynote speaker. There are also virtual exhibits happening. Thursday, November
19 is the second day which starts at 7:15 a.m. and ends 8:00 p.m. She said the
great thing about this virtual conference is that it is being recorded and available
for up to a year. She said the Board could use this as professional development
for up to a year.
Dr. Quinn reminded student board member, Cuong, that he is also registered.
Ms. Riddle said Friday starts at 9:15 a.m. and runs until 8:30 p.m. She said the
highlight that day is the equity access caucus, which is 11 to 12:15. She said we
are mainly talking about in the time of COVID, how is your equity lens, where
did you find the problems and what did you do to help solve those problems.
You will get to work with board members across the state.
Ms. Riddle said usually on Saturday there is the final keynote and workshops
but not this time. She said Melinda will be doing some budget workshops. Ms.
Riddle said two sessions are Deciphering District Budgets and Tackling Financial
Soundness, which are 3-hour sessions.
6. ADJOURN
The meeting was adjourned at 9:03 p.m.

__________________________________________

_______________________________________

School Board President

School Board Secretary

