Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes April 28, 2020
Generated by Tammy Bengen
Members present: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool, Noah Semu
Members absent: Avneet Pannu
Meeting called to order at 7:00 PM
1. CONVENE
Information: 1.01 Call to Order
Mr. McLaurin called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and welcomed
online audience members. He noted this evening's meeting was being
held via Zoom Video Conference. He said the meeting will be recorded
and the recording will be available on the district’s website.
Present from the administration were Superintendent Linda Quinn,
Assistant Superintendent for Teaching & Learning Scott Brittain, Assistant
Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive
Director for Student Services Paul Douglas, Executive Assistant for
Teaching and Learning Kellie Larrabee and Executive Director for Human
Resources John Fairbairn.
Information: 1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
At this time, the Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
Action: 2.01 Adopted Agenda
Mr. McLaurin announced the board would hold an executive session as
publicized, however no action will be taken during or following the
session. He noted that personnel item number 11.01 is no longer needed.
He said the personnel matter had been resolved.
Lee Anne Riddle move to adopt the meeting agenda with the
understanding of the executive session item and the deletion of item 11.01
from the agenda.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool
3. PUBLIC COMMENT [GC-3.3]
Information: 3.01 Public Comment Through Online Portal
Mr. McLaurin explained the format of Zoom in receiving public comment.
He said the board would not be receiving oral comments, however
participants could leave comments in the question and answer screen in
Zoom. The board will compile those and answer them at a later date.
Mr. McLaurin noted that no comments had been received by the board
prior to the meeting.
1

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes April 28, 2020
4. FOCUS ON STUDENTS
Information: 4.01 No Items
No items
5. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
Information: 5.01 Update on What Ferndale Schools is Doing in Response to the
COVID-19 Situation
Dr. Quinn reported the district is focused on meeting the guidelines and
mandates that support Governor Inslee's five priorities.
Dr. Quinn reported the district is contemplating the choices available for
grading students, particularly at the secondary level. The district is
leaning toward giving students either an "A" or an "I" (incomplete). She
said this meets the intent of the law at this time to do no harm to students.
Mr. Brittain said that faculty meetings are meeting held to discuss this
matter and that a final recommendation will be brought to the executive
team and administrative team this week.
Also, Dr. Quinn reported the district would shortly be sending a survey to
parents to get parent feedback on how things are going with them during
this time and to see if there are any obstacles that the district can assist
families with.
Dr. Quinn said staff began using Zoom conferencing last week to connect
with students. It's not required of teachers, however the district is asking
teachers in the elementary grades to consider it so they can connect with
their students on a social-emotional level.
Dr. Quinn said the district has served 10,000 meals. Dr. Douglas added
that Wild Bird Charity located in Blaine is contributing meals as well.
With regard to meaningful work for employees, Dr. Quinn said more of a
structure has been developed for para educator work. Also, the district is
putting an intranet in place for all of its professional development
offerings.
Dr. Quinn said the district is wrestling with end of year senior activities.
She said there will probably be a virtual graduation event in June with a
follow-up in-person event in either August, December or at the one year
reunion mark. She said the City of Ferndale has offered support to the
district.

2

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes April 28, 2020
Mr. McLaurin asked what percentage of students are not engaging in
education activities. Dr. Quinn said the district is collecting that data. She
will get that information to the school board.
Ms. Cool said she likes the idea of the grading focused on not doing harm
to students. She asked what an "A" would look like and what an "I" would
look like. Dr. Quinn said she has been conversing with the high school
principal on what those would look like. She said the larger school
districts in the state are using the "A" and "I" system. Also, she added that
students will have included on their transcript a notation about courses
that were taken during COVID.
Information: 5.02 Report on Capital Projects Bond
Mr. Deebach reported on the Capital Projects Bond. He said the Value
Engineering process finished up last month. There are some aspects of the
new school that were moved to the alternate list such as the auxiliary
gym, greenhouse and aquaculture building.
Mr. Deebach reported the Bond Oversight Committee is working on its
quarterly report for the board to present at its May meeting.
Also, he said the district is completing the bid package for the security and
vestibule items at district locations. It is hoped those will be completed
this summer.
Dr. Quinn asked if the board would like to hear an update from the
architects. The board responded in the affirmative. Dr. Quinn will
schedule a time for that presentation at an upcoming board meeting.
6. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
Action: 6.01 Authorized Superintendent to Call for Bids for Secure Entry
Vestibules and Access Control at Eight Locations
Mr. Deebach presented the matter of bidding for the secure entry
vestibules and access control systems as part of the 2019 bond package.
The eight sites scheduled for these improvements are: Cascadia
Elementary, Central Elementary, Custer Elementary, Eagleridge
Elementary, Skyline Elementary, Horizon Middle School, Vista Middle
School, and the district administration building.
The goal of this project is to provide secure entries utilizing "buzz-in"
access control systems requiring visitors to identify themselves at the
exterior doors, prior to being allowed access to the administrative office
for check-in and building access. The project is expected to be ready for
bidding in mid-May with construction beginning in mid-June.

3

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes April 28, 2020
Ms. Cool asked about the budget for this project. Mr. Deebach said $1
million is in the budget for this project. The project will not go over
budget. Mr. McLaurin asked if the bid process was dictated by state law.
Mr. Deebach said it is.
Dr. Erickson asked if the board could see the drawings of the plans for
these projects. Mr. Deebach will make them available to the board.
Dr. Kevin Erickson move to authorize superintendent to call for bids for
secure entry vestibules and access control systems at eight locations
throughout the district.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool
Information: 6.02 Discussion About the School Programs and Operations
Replacement Levy
Board members continued their discussion about the School Programs
and Operations Replacement Levy ballot measure. At the board's meeting
of April 7, 2020, the board decided to run the levy on the November 2020
general election ballot.
Dr. Quinn noted that the board has until August to file a resolution to
place the measure on the November ballot. The next discussion is about
the rate and duration for the levy.
Mr. McLaurin said there is still the unknown about opening the economy
and what the community will support. He said he didn't think the board
could make decision on these items tonight, and that scheduling the
matter for the May or June meetings would be better. The board may have
more information by that time. Dr. Erickson agreed the board did not
have enough information to move forward. Ms. Riddle, Ms. Deardorff and
Ms. Cool each agreed as well.
Ms. Cool noted she received her tax statement in the mail today which
indicated the due date was postponed to June 15. Ms. Riddle asked how
delay of tax collections might impact the district. Mr. Deebach said that
this year the district should be okay. However, it can cause a cashflow
issue. He said the state appropriates money to the district which is
impacted by tax collections. It will cause a lack of revenue during the
normal April/May timeframe when the district normally collects those
taxes and pushes it back toward June. Mr. Deebach said that is why the
district has a fund balance so it is able to cover situations similar to this
one.

4

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes April 28, 2020
It was the consensus of the board to continue discussion about the levy at
its May regular meeting.
7. SHARING [GC-7.E.]
Information: 7.01 Student Board Members
Noah Semu said he has been home with his family. Some of his teachers of
advanced classes are using Zoom meetings to teach and connect with
students. He said the main concern of students is the grading system and
graduation.
Mr. McLaurin asked about the signs he has seen that say "FHS Senior"
posted around town. Noah Semu said the signed were distributed at the
cap and gown distribution. Dr. Quinn said the signs were a gift from
Jostens. She said a story would be coming out in the next few days
regarding different traditions for graduation this year.
Ms. Cool asked about t-shirts for the senior class. Noah Semu said he
believed the Boosters were organizing and collecting that information.
Information: 7.02 Elected Board Members
Board members shared information.
Ms. Riddle said she participated in the WSSDA Board Zoom meeting.
WSSDA is talking about: what it might look like to start school back up,
whether or not to have a November conference, federal funding and the
flexibility of those funds, and model policies for using those funds.
Ms. Deardorff said the Lummi Nation is working on a project to get
students access to the internet. Ms. Riddle added that she has heard,
through her paid job at the Washington University Extension Office, that
DriveFi will be provided at more sites around the county. Dr. Quinn said
that district schools are also hotspots. Patrons can park in school parking
lots and use the internet.
Information: 7.03 Superintendent
Dr. Quinn said she will work with Mr. Vincent to get applications out to
student school board members for next year. Noah Semu's term comes to
an end this year. Dr. Quinn said she is also working with the high school
about the May board meeting which is the one that retirees and
outstanding seniors are highlighted. Dr. Quinn said she attended a
meeting today at Camp Murray with an advanced planning team
sponsored by the Governor. The team met to identify what will need to be
addressed before school can reopen.

5

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes April 28, 2020
Information: 7.04 Executive Administration
Mr. Fairbairn extended his thanks to each of the district's union groups for
all that they have done over the past six weeks. He said layoff notices for
86 people will go out this Friday and next Monday.
Dr. Quinn said she has received emails the last few weeks with regard to
fall sports. There is some pushback of why we would consider sports in
the fall when we are having to layoff people for other programs. She said
there are a number of reasons to consider fall sports: 1) it still falls within
the levy we are operating, 2) it's important to kids and the culture of the
school, 3) we get a big bang for the buck and can hire a dozen coaches for
one beginning teacher’s salary, 4) keeping kids involved in activities can
positively impact their engagement in school, 5) families are considering
taking kids out of district if we don’t have activities in the fall; that would
be a devastating impact on our budget, and 6) all of district portion of
athletics is paid for out of the levy. There may be options for the ASB and
Boosters to pay a portion. Also, the district could bring back pay to play
for those who can pay.
Mr. McLaurin said that the district listed activities and athletics as an area
that would be cut due to the levy failure. If the district is thinking of
bringing that program back then the messaging to the community will
need to be very clear.
Ms. Riddle asked if there were cost savings from the spring due to no
sports being offered. Dr. Quinn said there were some cost savings to the
district and to the ASB. No funds were spent on transportation.
Mr. McLaurin noted that no decision has been made about whether
activities and athletics will be reinstated.
8. SUPERINTENDENT CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Action (Consent): 8.01 All administrative matters delegated to the
superintendent that are required to be approved by the Board will be acted upon
by the Board via the consent agenda.
Dr. Erickson commented that looking at the enrollment history, it seems
the district is up a fair bit in that area. He asked how the district is
measuring enrollment now that students are not in school buildings.
Mr. Deebach said that next month's financial report will reflect the
average that OSPI bases apportionment. He said the district usually spikes
at this time of year due to the Jump Start Kindergarten Program
enrollment. Dr. Quinn said the district is paid apportionment based on
historical trends.

6

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes April 28, 2020
Melinda Cool moved to approve the superintendent’s consent agenda.
Motion carried.
Action (Consent): 8.02 Authorized Vouchers
Authorized Voucher Transmittals:
GENERAL FUND
Vouchers 279680-279801, 279826-279920 & 279932-279936 in the amount of
$1,120,419.08
GENERAL FUND PAYROLL
Warrants 477543-477561 dated March 31, 2020 in the amount of
$1,675,142.83; and electronic deposits in the amount of $3,448,286.68 for a
total of $5,123,429.51.
CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND
Voucher 279802-279806 – 279921-279923 in the amount of $985,040.40
A.S.B. FUND
Vouchers 279807-279825 & 279924-279931 in the amount of $22,961.29
Action (Consent): 8.03 Accepted Resignations and Retirements
Approved resignations and retirements per the list attached hereto and
made a part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.04 Authorized Leave of Absence
Approved a .5 FTE leave of absence during the 2020-2021 school year for
Jamie Hippner. Mr. Hippner is a LAP teacher at Eagleridge Elementary
School.
Action (Consent): 8.05 Approved the Interlocal Cooperative Agreement with
Northwest Educational Service District for the Whatcom Discovery Program
Approved the Interlocal Cooperative Agreement with Northwest
Educational Service District for the Whatcom Discovery Program, as
attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.06 Accepted March 2020 Fund Balance Financial Statements
Accepted the March 2020 Fund Balance Financial Statements, as attached
hereto and made part of the minutes.

7

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes April 28, 2020
9. BOARD CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Action (Consent): 9.01 The Board will use a consent agenda as a means to
expedite the disposition of routine matters and dispose of other items of business
it chooses not to discuss.
Melinda Cool moved to approve the board’s consent agenda. Motion carried.
Action (Consent): 9.02 Approved Minutes
Approved minutes of the School Board Special Meeting March 17, 2020
and School Board Special Meeting April 2, 2020 (rescheduled from March
31, 2020), as attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Information: 9.03 Reviewed Board of Directors' Budget
Reviewed the Year-to-Date Board of Directors' Budget as of March 31,
2020, as attached hereto and made part of the minutes.
Information: 9.04 Authorized the Northwest Educational Service District 189
Legal Services Cooperative Agreement
Authorized the Northwest Educational Service District 189 Legal Services
Cooperative Agreement, as attached hereto and made a part of the
minutes.
10. EXECUTIVE SESSION
Information: 10.01
At 8:15 p.m., the board convened into Executive Session for approximately
30 minutes to discuss personnel matters, performance of an employee. Mr.
McLaurin announced that there would be no action taken during or
following the session.
11. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
Action: 11.01 Termination of Employment
Note, this matter was removed from the agenda by the board when it
adopted the meeting agenda.
12. ADJOURN
At 8:33 p.m., the board reconvened into open session and immediately
adjourned.

___________________________________
School Board President

____________________________
School Board Secretary

8

