Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes April 2, 2020
Generated by Tammy Bengen
Members present: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool, Avneet Pannu, Noah Semu
Meeting called to order at 7:00 PM
1. CONVENE
Information: 1.01 Call to Order
Mr. McLaurin called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and welcomed
online audience members. Mr. McLaurin explained that this meeting had
been rescheduled from March 31, 2020 due to an interruption prior to the
start of the meeting on March 31. Also, he noted this evening's meeting
was being held via Zoom Video Conference.
Present from the administration were Superintendent Linda Quinn,
Assistant Superintendent for Teaching & Learning Scott Brittain, Assistant
Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive
Director for Student Services Paul Douglas, Executive Assistant for
Teaching and Learning Kellie Larrabee and Executive Director for Human
Resources John Fairbairn.
Information: 1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
At this time, the Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
Action: 2.01 Adopted Agenda
Dr. Kevin Erickson moved to adopt the meeting agenda.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool
3. PUBLIC COMMENT [GC-3.3]
Information: 3.01 Public Comment through Online Portal
Mr. McLaurin explained the format of Zoom in receiving public comment.
He said the board would not be receiving oral comments, however
participants could leave comments in the question and answer screen in
Zoom. The board will compile those and answer them at a later date. Also,
he read into the record comments that had been received by the school
board through its online portal. They were:
Kim Mercedes stated her concern about kids not having access to a
computer, assuming we go into online schooling.

1

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes April 2, 2020
Beth Marsau commented about the disruption to the board's recent Zoom
meeting. She made suggestions for how to set up the Zoom meeting so
that that would not happen again.
Joe Lupo commended the school district for their efforts to get meals to
families. He said this is an important step in supporting our community
and as most people are aware, this meal is critical for some kids, so kudo's
to the team of people putting the meals together, as well as those onsite to
distribute and of course those performing home deliveries! Thank you.
Also he asked if there had been any discussions with the state and local
elections offices or OSPI to get a special election in late May, early June in
lieu of the April special election being canceled by the elections
commission? He said it's understandable why they canceled the April
special election, but like every other firsts this seems reasonable.
4. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
Information: 4.01 Update on What Ferndale Schools is Doing in Response to the
COVID-19 Situation
Dr. Quinn reported the district is focused on meeting the guidelines and
mandates that support Governor Inslee's five priorities.
Dr. Douglas reported that food service is operating and delivering to
distributions sites on Mondays, Wednesday and Fridays from 11:00am1:00pm. There is drive-up and walk-up service. Each meal sack contains
two breakfasts and two lunches. Also, the transportation department is
assisting with distributing to additional sites. In addition, he said the
district has partnered with Open Hands and Miracle Food Network. A
third group—Wild Bird in Blaine—will be online next week. Wild Bird
will hand out food on Fridays. Dr. Douglas said the district is also
working with Whatcom Unified and the Food Security Task Force. The
district is working on communications available in different languages to
reach out to families. Dr. Quinn added there are 36 different sites for
distribution. These will provide the infrastructure for when the district
needs to deliver learning plans when students need hard copy of items.
Food service and transportation have done a great job. Our biggest
problem is too many volunteers to maintain social distancing protocols.
Melina Cool asked how people find out about the meals and asked about
where any leftover food goes. Dr. Douglas said there is no waste. What
the district does not hand out, gets picked up and delivered to families
through the Ferndale Food Bank and Miracle Food Network. Information
has been distributed via robo calls, emails and is posted on the district's

2

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes April 2, 2020
social media channels. The district has a hotline and is utilizing the
knowledge of the district's counselors and community coordinators to
identify areas of need.
Lee Anne Riddle asked about homeless families receiving information.
Dr. Douglas said the district has been working with the Dr. Larry Francois
at the educational service district. Homeless students, no matter where
they are located, can go to any location in the region and pick up meals.
Ms. Larrabee said childcare began Monday. Thirteen kids have registered.
The district has partnered with YMCA to provide this service. A nurse
from the Childcare Emergency Response Coalition trained all district
nurses and some assistants. She said people have been appreciative and
grateful for this service. The highest attendance has been six kids. The
district will follow up with families.
Dr. Quinn spoke to learning plans. The district is following state guidance.
Some changes have been made since the initial guidelines were
distributed. She said it was decided the district would continue with its
first plan through spring break. She said administrators have been
organizing staff to start more serious and robust learning plans on April
13. All students have been contacted five times, especially at the
elementary level. Staff are organized into grade level teams which are
working to move forward on April 13.
Ms. Larrabee reported on the elementary team of 20 who meet every
morning. They are designing the elementary plan. They are committed to
a plan of maintaining communication and finding out needs of students
and families.
Dr. Quinn said the district is working to make sure all staff members are
connected to the internet and have devices. She said we want to make sure
all of our high school students have a device and connectivity, and that
the district does not have enough devices for all of our elementary
students. Thus, the infrastructure of bus routes will serve the district well
in helping with distribution of hard copies.
Mr. Brittain said the secondary team is organized and doing work similar
to the elementary team. Teachers are connecting to students through
advisories. Every student has had contact with his/her teacher. On April
13, there will be a big shift to content learning that is standards-based.
There will be essential learnings that we need to have for all of our kids on
a regular basis. He said plans are being made for what kids need in the

3

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes April 2, 2020
next three and one-half weeks. At the secondary every kid has advice, but
some don’t have connectivity. The district will have paper copies for
pickup too.
Mr. McLaurin asked how the district, especially at the secondary level, is
keeping parents apprised of the expectations for students. Mr. Brittain
said parents will be informed by teachers every two weeks going forward.
If a teacher doesn’t hear from students, then teachers will call home to
connect to the parents/students.
Ms. Cool said her son is a sophomore and he has only been contacted once
via email. Mr. Brittain said he would follow-up on this.
Jessie Deardroff asked if the district able to reach tribal kids. She asked if
the district could help with connectivity such as hotspots. Mr. Brittain
answer in the affirmative. Every students is being contacted. Dr. Quinn
said she spoke with Lummi Nation School Superintendent Bernie Thomas
and Lummi Business Council Member Henry Cagey who are working to
secure more connectivity for the nation.
Mr. Brittain noted that teachers are taking inventory of which students
have internet at home and what data plans they have. The district will
work with providers in getting service to those students who need it.
With regard to graduation, Mr. Brittain said the state board is scheduled
to put their rulemaking in place next week. He has met with high school
counselors and administrators to go over rules and develop a plan. The
state has said that we will have the capacity at local level to provide
waivers through an application process to the state. If kids are making a
good faith effort, on track to graduate at end of semester in January and
enrolled in classes to meet graduation requirements, then the district will
get kids where they need to be. He said the district will be auditing every
senior. Ms. Deardorff asked if the list of graduates could be sent to the
JOM program staff. Mr. Brittain said he would provide the list to them.
Mr. Fairbairn spoke to staff meaningful work which began March 12. On
the 13 , schools were closed. The district held meetings the first Tuesday
school was out with every union. He described work each group would
do, where it would be done and special consideration. Every group has
things in common: professional development and public service. Lists of
these items have been developed. There will be weekly check-ins with
employee groups.
th

4

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes April 2, 2020
Ms. Cool asked where parents should be looking for guidance on how to
engage their students, where can they go? What can we do so we can start
getting teachers and students talking and connecting before April 13? She
said it’s unacceptable to have a wall up until April 13. She said what she
has heard from parents is that their child has not been contacted and
given directions on what to do. Then an email came out for teachers not to
contact students because of equity issues. She noted it’s been weeks since
this began.
Mr. Brittain said the information was sent to families. There were
suggestions for journaling and STEM activities. He said there were several
prompts given by teachers to students. He will send the information that
went out to families to the board for its reference.
Dr. Erickson said what he is hearing is that we are not communicating
well and may be missing connections. We should do a better job of getting
things out about what is happening. It will be good for the board to have
the information so they can share it out. Mr. McLaurin added there is a lot
of communication to send out in the next few days to be sure parents
know what the district is doing. He said he has heard the same concerns
from some people whose children attend Bellingham. He said the district
needs to be sure it is communicating all that it is doing.
Dr. Quinn noted she sends communications out every other day. Also, she
noted that the guidance from the stated shifted on March 27 to a focus on
content areas. And, thus, the district is making that shift as well. She said
she will work on more communication.
Information: 4.02 Report on Capital Projects Bond
Mr. Deebach said it was good that the value engineering process took
place when it did due to all the in person work necessary for its
completion. He said the bulk of work happening at this point includes
cost estimates and checking actual savings. Cornerstone is going through
the process of what the building will actually cost. It is going to be a little
high. Mr. Deebach noted that John Bales did the initial cost estimate and
he is now working with Cornerstone. Once the district gets a high
confidence cost number then it can be compared with value engineering to
see which items the district wants to actually implement.
Also, Mr. Deebach noted the district is forging ahead on the smaller
projects too—safety and security. He said he is not sure whether the
district will do any of that work this summer relative to the current
situation.

5

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes April 2, 2020
Information: 4.03 Discussion About Running the School Programs and
Operations Replacement Levy Again in 2020
Board members began discussion about whether to run the School
Programs and Operations Replacement Levy ballot measure again in 2020.
State law allows them to do so in either the August or November
elections.
Dr. Quinn noted that although the state had not cancelled the April
election, the board chose to remove the levy ballot measure from the April
meeting. She said the board may want to hold a special meeting to discuss
this and the educational program matter. She said it would good to hold
the meeting by April 15 because there are some legal requirements that
need to be met with regard to the educational program and impacts of
that decision. She also noted that following tonight’s meeting, she would
send the board information from DA Davidson about school ballot
measures.
Dr. Quinn said she and Mr. McLaurin have talked about ways to get input
from the community about the levy. Mr. McLaurin said input from the
public is going to be critical. He said the "curve" is not going to be flat
enough to know where we are going into the summer and fall. It is
difficult and challenging to make the right decision.
The board agreed to hold a special meeting on April 7, 2020 to continue
this discussion.
5. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
Action: 5.01 Adopted Resolution No. 6-2020 Rescinding School Programs and
Operations Replacement Levy
Mr. Deebach presented the resolution for the board's consideration. At the
school board's special meeting of March 17, 2020, the board decided to
rescind the School Programs and Operations Replacement Levy from the
April 2020 ballot. The Whatcom County Auditor's office requires an
official resolution be adopted by the board to rescind the measure.
Melinda Cool moved to adopt Resolution No. 6-2020 Rescinding School
Programs and Operations Replacement Levy as attached hereto and made
a part of the minutes.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool

6

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes April 2, 2020
Action: 5.02 Adopted Resolution No. 8-2020 Emergencies—Suspension of Policy
Mr. McLaurin presented Resolution No. 8-2020 Emergencies—Suspension
of Policy for the board's consideration.
Ms. Riddle noted this resolution authorizes the suspension of policy in
order to implement the efforts and guidance of government agencies. It
was drafted by the Washington State School Directors' Association.
Dr. Kevin Erickson moved to adopt Resolution No. 8-2020 Emergencies—
Suspension of Policy, as attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool
6. SUPERINTENDENT CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Lee Anne Riddle moved to approve the superintendent’s consent agenda as
presented. Motion carried.
Action (Consent): 6.01 All administrative matters delegated to the
superintendent that are required to be approved by the Board will be acted upon
by the Board via the consent agenda.
Action (Consent): 6.02 Authorized Vouchers
Authorized vouchers:
GENERAL FUND
Vouchers 279340-279480, 279514, 279515-279640 & 279678 in the amount of
$556,073.17
GENERAL FUND PAYROLL
Warrants 477520-477542 dated February 28, 2020 in the amount of
$1,668,584.48; and electronic deposits in the amount of $3,408,718.80 for a
total of $5,077,303.28.
CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND
Vouchers 279641-279642 in the amount of $49,846.97
A.S.B. FUND
Vouchers 279481-279512, 279643-279676 & 279679 in the amount of
$53,436.60
PPT FUND
Voucher 279677 in the amount of $190.00

7

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes April 2, 2020
TRANSPORTATION/VEHICLE FUND
Voucher 279513 in the amount of $391,516.04
Action (Consent): 6.03 Approved Hiring of Personnel
Approved the hiring of personnel per the list attached hereto and made a
part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 6.04 Authorized Supplemental Contracts
Approved supplemental contracts for March 2020, per the list attached
hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 6.05 Adopted Resolution No. 5-2020 Canceling Warrants
Adopted Resolution No. 5-2020 canceling General Fund warrants
numbered 278911 and 279254, and Associated Student Body Fund warrant
numbered 279307, as attached hereto and made part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 6.06 Accepted February 2020 Fund Balance Financial
Statements
Accepted the February 2020 Fund Balance Financial Statements, as
attached hereto and made part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 6.07 Authorized Travel
Authorized travel for:
1. Central Elementary School Teachers Lisa Lockwood and Nancy Button,
and grade five students to attend Camp Killoqua for a residential outdoor
environmental educational experience. The event will take place May 2022, 2020 in Stanwood, Washington. Estimated expenses of $8950 will be
paid through fundraising efforts, Central PTO and other donations.
2. Central Elementary School Teacher Sarah Steele, chaperones and 19
students to participate in an outdoor environmental educational
experience with Salish Sea Expeditions in Anacortes, Washington May 2628, 2020. Estimated expenses of $4000 will be paid by PTO fundraiser and
other donations.
7. BOARD CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Lee Anne Riddle moved to approve the board’s consent agenda as presented.
Motion carried.
Action (Consent): 7.01 The Board will use a consent agenda as a means to
expedite the disposition of routine matters and dispose of other items of business
it chooses not to discuss.

8

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes April 2, 2020
Action (Consent): 7.02 Approved Minutes
Approved minutes of the School Board Special Meeting February 17, 2020,
School Board Special Meeting February 22, 2020, School Board Special
Meeting February 24, 2020, and School Board Regular Meeting February
25, 2020, as attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Information: 7.03 Reviewed Board of Directors' Budget
Reviewed the Year-to-Date Board of Directors' Budget as of February 29,
2020, as attached hereto and made part of the minutes.
8. ADJOURN
Meeting adjourned at 8:45 p.m.

___________________________________
School Board President

____________________________
School Board Secretary

9

