Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes April 7, 2020
Generated by Tammy Bengen
Members present: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool, Noah Semu, Avneet Pannu
Meeting called to order at 7:05 PM
1. CONVENE
Information: 1.01 Call to Order
Mr. McLaurin called the meeting to order at 7:05 p.m. and welcomed
online audience members. He noted this evening's meeting was being
held via Zoom Video Conference. He said the meeting will be recorded
and the recording will be available on the district’s website.
Present from the administration were Superintendent Linda Quinn,
Assistant Superintendent for Teaching & Learning Scott Brittain, Assistant
Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive
Director for Student Services Paul Douglas, Executive Assistant for
Teaching and Learning Kellie Larrabee and Executive Director for Human
Resources John Fairbairn.
Information: 1.02 Recited Pledge of Allegiance
At this time, the Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
Action: 2.01 Adopted Agenda
Kevin Erickson moved to adopt the meeting agenda.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool
At this time, Mr. McLaurin noted that two comments had been received
by the school board as follows:
Dani Turley asked how students complete the written and driving for the
driver's education test. Mr. Brittain responded that he is contact with
Driver's Education Teacher Ted Genger regarding this matter. Also, he
said the Department of Licensing currently has a hold on testing. As soon
as direction is received from the Department of Licensing, the district will
communicate with parents.
Joey McAlpine asked if school district staff and teachers continue to
receive their full pay and if staff are required to keep track of their work.
Dr. Quinn replied that school is not closed, however it has moved from an
in-person model to a distance learning model. She said the Governor has
made it clear that schools will continue to receive their apportionment.
1

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes April 7, 2020
Dr. Quinn said the district expects employees to be working and
delivering education in a new way. Employees report their work to their
administrators. In addition, the Governor has allowed public employees
to count community service as part of their work.
Ms. Cool suggested that wording on the district's website be changed
from "schools are closed" to "buildings are closed, but school is not
closed." Dr. Quinn said she would work on clarifying the language on the
website.
Mr. McLaurin advised the public they could submit questions to the board
through the question and answer portal during the webinar. The board
would then look at those and respond, if needed, at a later date.
3. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
Action: 3.01 Adopted Resolution No. 7-2020 Reduction in Force for the 2020-2021
School Year
Dr. Quinn and Mr. Fairbairn presented Resolution No. 7-2020 Reduction
in Force for the 2020-2021 School Year for the board's consideration.
Dr. Quinn said the resolution is part of the process of making reductions
in staff in order to balance the budget without levy dollars for the 20202021 school year. The resolution is a legal requirement that was drafted by
district legal counsel. The resolution authorizes the superintendent to
move forward with making the necessary reductions in staff. Dr. Quinn
noted that the resolution addresses only union represented staff.
Mr. Fairbairn added that the levy is one factor. Other factors for reducing
the budget include the move to SEBB, declining enrollment and the state
indicating that districts may receive less revenue in the year ahead.
Mr. McLaurin asked if the state reduces funding, how will the district
balance the budget. Mr. Fairbairn said it would done by reducing
nonemployee costs, other nonrepresented employee reductions and staff
attrition. Mr. Deebach added that the budget is based on what the district
knows at this point in time.
Ms. Cool asked for the numbers in declining enrollment and the
percentage of what the reduction will be from the state. Mr. Fairbairn
answered that those items have yet to be defined.
Ms. Deardorff asked for a list of staff members who are being reduced in
force so she can reach out to them. Dr. Quinn said she would provide a list
to her.

2

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes April 7, 2020
Ms. Cool asked when staff would know whether or not they will be
working next year. Dr. Quinn said that all staff who are being reduced in
force were notified by March 27. Next week, if the district has the
information, it will let certificated staff know what their assignments will
be for next year. Mr. Fairbairn said that classified staff will be informed
about assignments next year as they leave for the summer.
Dr. Erickson asked if the resolution was based on no levy funds and some
state funding. Mr. Deebach said the district is planning for both.
Ms. Cool clarified that the reductions include 26 certificated staff, 40
classified staff and 25 staff through attrition. Dr. Quinn said that was
correct.
Lee Anne moved to Adopt Resolution No. 7-2020 Reduction in Force for
the 2020-2021 School Year, as attached hereto and made a part of the
minutes.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool
Information: 3.02 Discussion About Running the School Programs and
Operations Replacement Levy Again in 2020
Board members discussed whether to run the School Programs and
Operations Replacement Levy ballot measure again in 2020.
Dr. Quinn said the board has two dates this year that it can put a measure
on the ballot—August or November elections. Should the levy pass on
either of these dates, collection of the levy begins January 2020. She noted
that she sent election trend data from the district's financial advisor to the
board last evening.
Ms. Riddle expressed her desire to wait until the November election due
to the current COVID situation. Mr. McLaurin agreed.
Ms. Cool noted that waiting until November meant there would probably
be no fall sports or extracurricular activities. Dr. Quinn confirmed that.
Dr. Quinn said there may be a possibility the district could institute a fee
to play and get assistance from booster clubs. Ms. Deardorff noted how
important sports are to kids and that money be set aside for football. Ms.
Cool noted other activities are just as important, and we need to be
equitable.

3

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes April 7, 2020
Ms. Riddle said a conversation about these offerings should be held with
students. The situation we are in requires thinking outside the box to
support our students. Dr. Quinn said she does have a meeting coming up
with the high school principal and the ASB.
It was the consensus of the board to run the levy ballot measure in the
November 2020 election.
4. SHARING [GC-7.E.]
Information: 4.01 Sharing
The superintendent and board members shared information.
Noah Semu reported that teachers are providing opportunities for
students to meet with them through Zoom and Canvas. He said a lot of
his work is on special projects. He said seniors, in particular, are
emotionally affected.
Avneet Pannu said the junior class is scared and concerned about grades.
She said interactions with teachers are beginning with teachers through
Zoom.
Ms. Cool read a statement into the record which she had sent to the local
media. It was a response to Governor Inslee's and State School
Superintendent Reydahl's announcement about closing schools and
moving to distance learning. The statement is attached hereto and made a
part of the minutes.
Mr. McLaurin said he and Dr. Quinn discussed internet hotspots. Dr.
Quinn said she spoke with Jori Burnett, City of Ferndale, about providing
community hotspots. She noted that people can sit in their cars in school
parking lots and gain access to the internet.
Ms. Deardorff thanked Dr. Quinn for the work she is doing. Dr. Quinn
said it's also a lot of hard work from our teachers and staff.
Mr. McLaurin gave a shout out to the food service crew. He noted that
ensuring people have food is a critical piece in our community.
Ms. Larrabee said grade level teams are working on new learning
activities in the areas of reading, writing and math. Lessons and notes will
be sent to students and parents. Lessons will be scheduled for Mondays
and Wednesdays, with reinforcement activities on Tuesday and
Thursdays. Friday will be a day for students to receive feedback on their

4

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes April 7, 2020
work. Ms. Larrabee said packets for K-5 are being mailed to families.
Dr. Quinn noted that about 2500 students will receive a packet in the mail.
Mr. Brittain said the secondary level has been focused on making sure
students have internet access. To date, it looks to be under 100 students
who do not have access. He said those students will be provided learning
packets as needed.
Avneet Pannu asked when students would know about the grading
guidelines. Dr. Quinn said at the end of this grading period. Students will
be graded. Information will be sent to students and families.
5. ADJOURN
Meeting adjourned at 8:32 p.m.

___________________________________
School Board President

____________________________
School Board Secretary

5

