Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes December 15, 2020
Generated by Kelly Warner
  Ferndale School District Members present: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Melinda Cool, Avneet Pannu, Cuong Nguyen, Jessie Deardorff
Members Absent: Lee Anne Riddle
  Lummi Nation Education Board Members present: Jana Finkbonner, Connie Martin, Sharon Kinley, Lawrence Solomon, Juanita Jefferson, Kathleen Solomon
  1. CONVENE
Information: 1.01 Call to Order
Mr. Andrew McLaurin called the meeting to order at 6:07 PM and welcomed online audience members.
  Information: 1.02 Greetings and Introductions
Ferndale School Board President Mr. Andrew McLaurin introduced members of the Ferndale School Board and administration.
  Chair of the Lummi Nation Education Board Ms. Jana Finkbonner introduced members of the Lummi Nation Education.
  Present from the Ferndale administration were Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn, Assistant Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive Director of Teaching & Learning Dr. Faye Britt, Executive Director of Teaching & Learning Kellie Larrabee, Executive Director for Human Resources John Fairbairn, Principal Heather Leighton.
  Present from Lummi Nation were Education Director Bernie Thomas, Education CFO Julie Solomon, K12 Principal Kevin Villars, ELC Director Janelle Johnson and LIBC’s Training and Development Administrator Krista Mahle.
  2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
Action: 2.01 Adopt Agenda
Melinda Cool moved to adopt the meeting agenda.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Melinda Cool, Jessie Deardorff, Jana Finkbonner, Connie Martin, Sharon Kinley, Lawrence Solomon, Juanita Jefferson, Kathleen Solomon
  3. GENERAL
Information: 3.01 Presentation by FSD: “How our Lummi students are faring in Ferndale schools"
Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn provided an introduction for the presentation and asked the Lummi Nation Education Board to inform the Ferndale School District if there are other ways they would like FSD to communicate with them.
  Executive Director of Teaching and Learning Dr. Faye Britt presented a PowerPoint, which is available on BoardDocs. The PowerPoint included:
Lummi Student Information
Enrollment
Attendance
Course Completion
Athletic/Activities Participation
Special Education Focus
Native American Programs and Student Engagement Liaisons
Budget Information
Recognition and Honoring of our Native American Students and Heritage
Communication with the Lummi Nation
  Dr. Quinn and Dr. Britt answered questions from the Board.
  Discussion: 3.02 Response to the Presentation by the Lummi Nation
The Lummi Nation Education Board will further review the Joint Policies and Procedures and discuss how they would like information presented to Lummi Nation.
  4. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
Discussion: 4.01 Discussion of the Joint Policies and Procedures and Impact Aid Application
The Lummi Nation Education and Ferndale School Board discussed items that need to be addressed including the following:
Even though the original language of the IPPs (Indian Policies and Procedures) is encoded in federal law, the wording should be changed from “Lummi Tribe” to “Lummi Nation”, from “Indian” to “Native American,” and from “non-Indian” to “non-Native.”
FSD needs to provide appropriate notification of the JOM-sponsored meetings between Lummi families and Ferndale School District staff
FSD needs to create a progress report on the implementation of the Since Time Immemorial curriculum and an assessment of the curriculum in terms of Professional Development for the teachers and the impact on Lummi student.
FSD should consider the creation of career-responsive CTE (Career & Technical Education) programs, as touched on in Article 14 of the Point Elliot Treaty of 1855.
FSD and LNE will continue to work together to address the issue of racism in our community.
FSD needs to document use of the Since Time Immemorial curriculum. It was not addressed in the PowerPoint.
FSD needs to provide the Lummi Nation with the District’s 2020-2021 budget for Native American programs.
FSD needs to conclude the process of putting in place a Lummi-approved land acknowledgement for use at Ferndale School Board meetings and other District events.
FSD should include data in the JPPs showing that Native American students get equal access to participate in extra-curricular activities.
  Mr. McLaurin encouraged the Lummi Nation Education members to send comments and additional questions to Dr. Quinn. He said we will work to schedule a follow-up meeting, or series of meetings, in January.
  5. SHARING
5.01 Final Sharing
No items were shared at this time.
  6. ADJOURN
The meeting was adjourned at 7:04 PM.