Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes—Community Forum February 24, 2020
Generated by Tammy Bengen
Members present: Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie Deardorff, Melinda Cool,
Noah Semu
Members absent: Avneet Pannu
Meeting called to order at 6:35 a.m.
1. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
Information: 1.01 Shared Information About the Education and Operations
Replacement Levy
At 6:35 p.m., President McLaurin opened the public forum and welcomed
audience members. There were approximately 240 members in the audience. The
meeting was held in the large group area at Vista Middle School, 6051 Vista
Drive, Ferndale, Washington.
Present from the administration were Superintendent Linda Quinn, Assistant
Superintendent for Teaching & Learning Scott Brittain, Assistant Superintendent
for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach and Executive Director for
Human Resources John Fairbairn.
The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
Mr. McLaurin provided an introduction of why this special meeting of the school
board was called. He explained that the Ferndale School Programs and
Operation Levy ballot measure of February 11, 2020 had failed. He said the
school board met in a special meeting on February 17, 2020 to discuss the levy
failure and next steps. One of the next steps was to hear from community
members. Thus, the school board decided to hold two public forums—one was
held Saturday, February 22 and tonight’s meeting.
Similar to his comments at the February 22, 2020 forum, Mr. McLaurin reviewed
the information about the pros and cons that the school board considered in
setting the levy rate and placing the measure on the ballot. He reported that out
of 145 districts that ran ballot measures in the February election all but 12
communities approved their local levies, including the six other district in
Whatcom County. In Ferndale's case, the levy failed with 56% of the voters
saying they would not support the levy.
Mr. McLaurin's verbatim remarks are attached hereto and make a part of the
minutes.

1

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes—Community Forum February 24, 2020
At this time, Superintendent Linda Quinn provided a 30 minute Powerpoint
presentation to the school board and audience about the district's current
situation and what next steps by the board might look like. She spoke to what
budget cuts would be necessary to operate the district without the levy or with a
levy at the $1.50 rate. She explained that to maintain programs going
forward, the district was anticipating $13 million per year from the levy. She
noted that 84% of the district's budget is spent on personnel. She pointed out
what personnel cuts might be considered. She also spoke to costs that are fixed
and other areas that are legally prohibited from the district making cuts.
Note, the Powerpoint document showing the details of what Dr. Quinn
presented is attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Dr. Quinn said the district is allowed to run the levy again one more time this
year. She said if the board chose to run it again and place it on the April ballot,
the district will still need to plan for cuts should the levy fail because there are
certain legal requirements in notifying staff whether they will or will not have a
position with the district for next year. She said if the levy passes in April, the
district would probably be able to restore approximately 60% of the cuts. She
added that restoration would be for programs that are closest to students first.
Dr. Quinn said one of the comments the district has been hearing is that
administration has increased. She presented comparison data from 10 years ago
to today for student enrollment and staffing levels. She said the same number of
people are doing the same work in the area of administration; three were given
different titles. That includes 29 people, with six of those designated as the
Executive Team.
2. PUBLIC COMMENT
Information: 2.01 Received Public Comment
Mr. McLaurin recognized audience members who may have comments to
present to the board. The following comments were received:
Please note, we apologize for any misspellings of names or names we were not
able to hear.
Connie Faria: I've been in Ferndale for 20 years. I'm a homeowner. I have three
kids—one in college, one's a junior at the high school and one at Cascadia. Thank
you for all the information tonight. I attended Saturday's forum too. I want to
address the community. I was part of the bond and levy campaigns. Less than 10
people were on our committee. The levy hasn’t failed since 1976. We followed a
formula followed for this campaign. We had people from each school working
on certain tasks. A different campaign will probably be needed. Aware we
passed the bond, new housing assessment, and increased water rates. Those of
you who would like to help, I would encourage you to come to next meeting.
2

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes—Community Forum February 24, 2020
There's been lots of conversations the last weeks. I've listened to some no voters.
I want to ask a couple questions. McClearly was a one-time bump from state. The
teachers came to you and you said yes to increased salaries. Why, when the
money wasn’t going to be there, did you do that?
John Fairbairn: We believe that we will provide a competitive salary, especially
compared to other districts in the county. It was necessary to settle a rate to
maintain the place in the district for our employees.
Linda Quinn: The legislature made it clear that that is what the money was for. It
was ongoing. It was to get teaching staff up to a professional level in pay.
Connie Faria: Why can’t students be funded at $12000 per student? Why is it
more at public school than private school?
Linda Quinn Public schools take everyone. Some students have more needs; we
need greater staffing. Private school can be selective on who they take. Public
school hires teachers who are certified, ours are represented by unions. Private
schools are not required to hire certificated teachers and pay into retirements.
Public schools have to give money to private schools such as money for
professional development and extracurricular activities. I will write a response to
address this question.
Connie Faria: I’m supportive in running the levy for four years. Maybe a lower
rate than $2.50. Maybe $2.25. Work within a budget. People will be more willing
to accept the rate.
Caleb: I'm a sixth grader at Vista. I participate in the afterschool study program
to stay ahead. I use a Chromebook from the school; use it every day in school
and at home. I'm in the elective study island. My goal for grades are As and Bs in
classes. I'd like to play sports in seventh grade. The levy money pays for these
programs. If the levy doesn’t pass I'm worried I won’t be able to participate in
these programs. The programs are important to me and my classmates. Please
reconsider your vote. Our futures depend on it.
Amy Day: I live outside Ferndale in the county. I have three kids who went to
Ferndale Schools—two at Ferndale High. They went through Custer and Vista. A
question, when you run a levy at stated rate, why does the amount vary over the
four years?
Mark Deebach: Up until the McCleary levy swap it was a fixed dollar about you
approved which is then spread out over households according to one's home
value. The state came out with new rules—it's still a rate you are approving, but
the rate may vary. The rate will be up and down. We are in unusual
circumstance. The board picked a lower rate than the $2.50 as a compromise rate
3

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes—Community Forum February 24, 2020
that kept the overall tax rate the same as what was advertised in the bond
campaign. The bond rate came in lower than what we projected so we could
raise the levy rate a bit. Going forward the rate could stabilize but probably not.
Amy Day: I'd like to read a list of extracurricular activities that kids have
enjoyed. FFA, honors society, wrestling, cross-country, Aiming High, drama,
Mecha, ASB Leadership, Link Crew. These are not just valuable personally and
not just to the community, they are important for the rest of their lives. They help
them get into a great college. The world we live in requires a great deal more
than the 3 Rs. We're a global community and need to prepare children
appropriately. Please rerun the levy; not sure what the rate it should be. We need
to pass the levy.
Nicole Parsons: I have a grandson, Damien. He took a blue ribbon in Math
Olympiad. He took it in personal individual category. This is an extracurricular
event. Damien, in addition to making such an achievement, has autism. He
didn’t speak until he was three. He came to preschool in Ferndale. He has two
paras—one in the a.m. and one in the p.m. This is not just for Damien, but for
children in special needs areas. Children in other states don’t have this luxury.
They wanted Damien to attend Custer, but Custer didn’t have the facilities.
Damien is not a remedial student. I want to thank the district for having
programs like this so all children have an opportunity to shine. it's the most
important thing for a child. We want them to grow up to be a taxpayer. It keeps
our country alive, schools alive. It makes them part of the community. We have
to be a community that supports all the different things that gives everyone a full
and rounded education.
Jake Pederson: I'm a sophomore at Ferndale High School. Two days ago I posted
on Facebook about how concerning it is for extracurricular activities being
removed. One of my good friends replied highly against it. One thing he used as
an argument, you do not need schools determining what your future is going to
be. I agree with him 100%. This is coming from someone who is homeschooled
who hasn’t had the experience of being in any district school. From my
perspective, what makes the high school great are the extracurricular activities.
Not a lot of students have the resources to do what they want to do on their
own—sports, clubs. If we remove those, there are going to be a lot of students
who are dropping out, transferring schools, parents moving out of the town. It's
a community issue. Speaking of the community, if we didn’t have those things
we wouldn’t have Ferndale students in city council. Students have a voice. We
wouldn’t have leaders like Noah Semu, Jose and Alex Faria who helped spread
awareness for the bond last year. The reason why it didn’t pass; it’s about not
spreading awareness and not explaining what the levy was. Alex Faria helped
spread awareness. How many people voted for levy vs. bond?

4

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes—Community Forum February 24, 2020
Linda Quinn 7000 for levy; more than twice; I would have to get the specific
numbers.
Jake Pederson: Explain these things in order for people to make up their minds. I
agree we should rerun this levy. Reduce the price to $2.25 or $2.30. It's important
for us as a community. It's important for students and teachers to have sources
that they need to live their lives and enjoy themselves.
Brandon Novak: I want to speak to the community. On normal school night I'm
usually on a soccer field or basketball court. I shoot a lot of photos. If we don’t
rerun it, we have a big chance of losing athletic programs. I would not have
found my passion if it wasn’t for these sports. I want to pursue my passions as a
person. I know that's true for a lot of other kids I play. Not having transportation
is a huge issue. Not having a program at all is the biggest issue. People have
opportunities for scholarships through sports. It's more than a single game.
Lucas: I attend Vista. I've been part of the Talented and Gifted Program. I'm in
the magnet program at Vista. My little brother is a second grader and I have an
older sister—both are in gifted programs. My family chose to move to Ferndale
because of these programs. Math Olympiad and orchestra challenge me. I'm
planning on playing sports in school. Activities are important to me. They
provide for well-rounded students, discipline and teamwork. I understand the
levy cost the community; my parents have a budget, they will prioritize the levy.
Ron Bishop: I'm a graduate of Ferndale High School; Class of 1991. I went to
Vista; also Mountain View. I was on the 1988 wrestling team. The levy is very
important. I have a son who is a Custer Cougar. Both my parents owned
businesses in Ferndale until 2005—Beauty salon, autobody shop. Dad was very
instrumental in Ferndale. When there was a uniform issue with the wrestling
club, dad donated to the club so kids had the equipment they needed. Ferndale
Pride. My brother is a graduate of Ferndale High. People rallied to keep Intalco
open. My wife is a paraed. She loves her position. We need to pass this levy.
$2.25, $2.17. You can complain all you want about sewer/water rates. Do
something about it. What about permit fees for new homes. What is Ferndale
doing for the district? There are apartments being built on Portal Way. What
goes to the district? Where I work, a permit is $10-12,000 per building.
Linda Quinn: We do get impact fees. It has to be spent on buildings and grounds
and in the area where it is collected. It's not near the amount that you are talking
about.

5

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes—Community Forum February 24, 2020
Ron Bishop: The building department needs to get involved. Lake Stevens gives
funds to its schools. An average of $12-17,000 that is going to the school per
house built. Three things we do: live, die and pay taxes. We are going to go to a
one income household. Run the levy at the current rate at $2.17 or go for $2.25.
It’s just going to go up. Home value rates go up.
Gage Cordin(sp?): I attend Vista. I was diagnosed with autism two years ago. I
spent a lot of my life in hospitals and behavioral schools. I received help from a
lot of people. Because of the help, I went from a little child to now being at the
top in my classes. I have lots of friends and people who care about me. I'm
content with my life because of teachers, aides and kids. People choose to be
around us and try to help us so that we try out best. It's making us feel like we
matter. I have a friend who was diagnosed with autism, he felt discriminated
against. He got an aide to help him; help made him think he had a future. We all
have a child somewhere inside of us. People make decisions to benefit and not
benefit people. We are the future. It’s up to you guys on how you decide the
future of America is.
Peggy Upiano: I'm one of the voices of “no.” I want to explain what the other
side feels. I strongly urge you to recognize that many people don’t go to these
because they don’t feel they are respected or opinions matter. My experience
with Ferndale Schools has been different. A boy I had did not receive what he
needed from the district. There are still people who fall through the cracks and
have to find alternatives. We need what money we have to spend it on our own
kids and to pay taxes to support other kids. Some people feel that the system
does not work. Friends are on the edge of being able to afford their homes. For
me it represents money I would spend toward my own kids' tuition. I recognize
other families have to make tough decisions. Stay with the $1.50. Compromise
for no voters that you will have on your side if you go with that rate.
Renee Miller: My family and I moved to Ferndale four years ago after being in
districts that could not handle my children. I have three sons who are autistic.
When looking to come to Ferndale, I visited all the county districts. Ferndale has
the best special education program. Even in the general ed classes my oldest has
thrived. My youngest child is seven and goes to Cascadia. He does not speak at
school. Not one person at his school has heard this child speak. He can go to
principal and superintendent's office and talk. He is the one who has to have a
paraed with him all day long. I would hate to lose that support for my kids or
any child to lose that. It means the difference in students succeeding and being a
productive member of society. For those that have issues with the schools, get
involved. I can’t tell you it has been 100% roses with Ferndale, but I fight for my
kids; talk to people. Issues are pretty much resolved. I try to give back because I
have a better understanding. I would be supportive of even a $2.20-2.25. Schools
need it. We want kids from our schools be able to go to college. No sports or

6

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes—Community Forum February 24, 2020
extracurricular. My eighth-grade child is in Math Olympiad and had two ribbons
at the last event. This is a child who doesn’t really talk to people. Staff is so
fantastic; they know how to work with him. I want to read what he wrote: “his
name is Kevin V. He believes the levy is important to pass because of the many
afterschool activities that many students enjoy; can also learn new skills.” He's
getting out and doing something productive. These will all go away. Afterschool
events grow skills. We need the levy. I don’t think $1.50. It's better than nothing,
but is still doing kids a disservice. Look at a higher amount.
Jaden: I'm Renee's son. I'm a junior at Ferndale High School. I have developed a
lot better than when I was in Bellingham School District. One of the things is the
amount of extracurricular activities and the ability to choose my electives. Those
electives will get me to certain colleges and jobs. I want to do STEAM. I'm not
that big of a sports geek. I know other students who love sports. Many of my
friends are on teams. Activities are helpful. Study lab helps out too; you can help
catch up on work. Many of my other schools never gave me that opportunity.
I’ve improved dramatically over the years in Ferndale. I've gone from Fs to As,
Bs and Cs—and in categories of core classes.
Christina Rucker: I'm a teacher and a parent. I'm excited to be part of our
district’s work. SEL and equity work. I work with paras and many support
personnel who help students make great strides. Behavior support specialist get
under desks to help kids. Kids are actually getting help to be productive citizens.
It will go away if we lose the levy. We are working hard in our district as
demonstrated by turnout of students here tonight who have skills and passion.
As a homeowner that’s not something I want lost. We are working to close the
gaps so we don’t have families who are sidelined.
As a parent, my daughter will be in kindergarten next year. And I have
another one coming on the way. They will not have what we have now. Run the
levy at the higher rate. Increase engagement of the community. I'm a proponent
of equity. Engage Lummi Nation as well. Large majority of students at my school
are native. What would outreach look like? Thank you to the students who spoke
tonight and people who are sharing their views.
Joe McNeill: I have a question. Do you want no voters to come out and talk? It’s a
sign to us that we don’t care about kids. I support $1.50. I was a no voter for the
bond. It was because of the mistrust of the board and I didn’t have the info I
learned here tonight. Why didn’t you make us aware? This district is head and
shoulders above Bellingham. We need honesty.
Mimi O (?): I'm in real estate; on board of Whatcom County Realtors. I have two
grandsons in the district. My daughter went here too. Exceptional schools sell
houses. There are a lot of reasons why values are high; one is because schools are
so great. Realtors drive clients to Ferndale from Bellingham. The values have
7

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes—Community Forum February 24, 2020
gone up. Recognize they can go in the opposite direction if you have crummy
schools. Schools are graded online. Potential buyers can see that. Districts are in
the business of giving a report card. I haven’t seen report cards coming out from
the schools. People didn’t understand what was going on with levy. It's harder to
reach people. Some of you are on Facebook Ferndale Neighbors page. There are
5000 on that page. You should all be on that page. Communicate there. The
community has been talking a lot there. Communicate what was communicated
tonight to help people understand.
Andrew Gustafson: In the 2020 levy, 8700 people voted. For the bond 6078 yes,
3719 no. You are missing 1000 voters who did participate in this past February
election. Missing 2200 yes votes. There were 1200 more people who voted no on
the bond. 56% is a blowout. 2200 people you need to talk to about why they
should vote for the levy. All in at $1.50 which was promised during the bond
campaign. Run it for four years to lock in the rate. You don’t want to try to run
again in two years. Let assessed values take up the gap. In 2017 it switched us to
a budget-based from rate system. $2.17 is an odd number to come to last October.
The new rules say you can collect at the $2.50 rate or $2500 per student,
whichever is the lesser. Students have been flat at 4500-4600. You are capped by
law at about $11.5 million. Effective rate of $2.17 this year, next year $2.05; and
the next $1.95. You didn’t communicate that to voters. This fiscal year $2.17 is
getting you to that $11.5 million; not $13 million. If you pass at $1.50 it would
generate $8.3 million. With the 2022 A.V. increases you are looking to collect $8.8
million. It's important you are transparent with everybody. The four-year
projections you posted last July. Budgeted $56 million last year, next year you are
almost doubling the amount you are spending. $78 million this year; by your
projections that will be $90 million in four years. All these things being cut.
Should look at what’s being spent. This reminds me when the government shut
down the open air parks. We want to know about the other $65 million and the
$90 million you are getting to. Not being fully transparent. What do you need to
cut to live within your means? I’ll vote yes on $1.50.
Hope Jose Day: I'm a junior at Ferndale High School. On Saturday, I competed at
wrestling competition. I'm involved in many activities at the high school—clubs,
sports, AP/honors classes. I've gained tremendous skills from these. I have so
much joy and learned so much about myself and made friends. Ferndale High
will no longer support a student like myself; high achieving students; those that
depend on clubs. Students are left with no choice but to leave. It will leave low
income and troubled students in the dark. It will lower teens opportunities to
grow, shine, lower opportunities to go to college. This affects all of Ferndale. It
will no longer be a home where children get a better education. Children may
find other destructive ways to spend time. Students need our schools; need you,
your vote, we need you. Rebuild faith and hope in our community. Thank you
for your hard work, your vote and your time.

8

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes—Community Forum February 24, 2020
Birgit Milton: I'm an eighth grader at Vista. I'm active in my community. I helped
in the bond efforts. I'm aware of the animosity against the district. Please run the
levy again at $2.50. I implore voters to vote yes. The levy is vital. It affects me,
my classmates and future of schools. I'm concerned about my future. Please do
not let me and my classmates down.
Marty Moravec: I teacher Leadership at Ferndale High School. I'm a Custer
Cougar, a Vista Viking and Ferndale High School Golden Eagle. [read the
Leadership Programs purpose statement.] Community—to come together and to
share. Share the responsibility. I want to share some community projects kids
have been doing. In my program students are required to give 100 hours of
community involvement every year. That's 13,000 hours total each year in just
my program. They help with community events for children in this community:
special needs carnival, FAFSA night, spaghetti dinner at the senior center,
Salvation Army, childcare; game night, Christmas toy distribution. Be the One
carnival, little buddy mentors, food drive, park clean ups, Camp Horizon, staff
lounge painting. This is just my program. It's not like Oksale, MeCHa, FFA, and
all the other programs that might not exist. I'm concerned for our community.
How will it respond when opportunities are lost? I remember my teenage years
and my involvement. In FBLA, we helped out a disabled community member. I
went and did it. Still, the heart of service is in me today. What kind of citizens are
we going to make for generations to come? We are Ferndale and we can do this.
Aurora S(?): I'm a junior at Ferndale High. Levy is not only affecting me, it's
affect my peers. Programs like sports, language, and leadership. I’ve never had a
lot. To have these outlets makes a big difference. I have younger sisters. I play
sports to have a sense of belonging. I had hardships when the year began. We
have drug and alcohol intervention specialists. Native American advisor. I need
a teacher to help me with language. Cutting Native language class will have
more than impact than just language. It takes away the chance of belonging. I
plan to learn more about the levy and spread awareness.
Derick Kruesinger: I have five kids in Ferndale School District. How were the
cuts designed? Who decided on these cuts?
Linda Quinn: So far that was done by a group of administrators in consultation
with the board. It’s the first go at it. We have to take into account contracts. And
things that we can’t cut. Also, we have to look at what the state funds which is
based on a prototypical school model. Everything else comes out of the levy. We
looked at what is not funded by state funds.
Derick Kruesinger: Are you taking this to a second level; getting input from
people below the board; principals?
Linda Quinn Yes.
9

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes—Community Forum February 24, 2020
Derick Kruesinger: Everybody cares about their children. If we are going to make
these cuts, communication is a key point of this. Would anyone like more
communication about what is necessary to be cut and what it stands for? You’re
missing communication. We need to have knowledge about what we are
missing, what needs to be filled, what needs to be cut. Put out $1.50 and add an
additional second line for the community to respond to. We don’t know what we
are spending the money on. Figure out the number; what we are getting for it
and what we will not get for that number. I didn’t get a thing in the mail that I
understood except the ballot. We are all for the schools; the kids. Get
communication out there. Some of the jobs I saw are key individuals I go to them
if I have questions.
Linda Quinn: We’ll do our best. We are funded by the state on a model. For
example, we get state funding for .75 nurses. We employ 4 nurses. the difference
comes out of the levy. We are funded for about 75 classified employees. We
employ about 150 FTE.
Derick Kruesinger: You need to communicate that.
Linda Quinn: We are trying to figure out which 175 we would keep, we ‘ll do our
best.
Derick Kruesinger: Give me a proposal. What am I buying, what am I going to
get, what’s it going to cost me and why is it a benefit?
Rob Fickeisen: I'm a parent. I love our teachers and staff. I would pay them more
not less. Whatever decision is made it can’t be a disservice to our community,
our schools and kids. Do what’s best for them. Running it at lower rate is not the
best thing. Whatever decision is made by the board, they have to decide what is
best, what the community wants. I’m committed to being there to make sure it
happens. To be sure that we can get the best we possibly can for the community
and our kids.
Kimberly Bryant: I have five children in Ferndale Schools. Three boys have had
special education services. Daughters are at Ferndale High and involved in
extracurricular activities such as Leadership, FFA, Honor Society. Everyone cares
about children. My eighth grade son has autism. He was telling me how excited
he is about high school because he wants to do tennis. I can’t imagine the future
of the district without services my family has partaken in.
Mike Riley: I have ideas that might work. What about impact fees? It's probably
$5000 on new housing. The City of Ferndale would raise $750,000 year. It could
go over $1-1.5 million. Put an immediate hiring freeze on. Look at every position.
Form an adhoc committee like there was for the bond. Include five yes voters
and five no voters and go through the budget. Go on zero based budgeting; look
10

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes—Community Forum February 24, 2020
at redundant positions that you don’t need. I managed a post office station. Run
levy for two years. Run at $2. 17. Compromise. By end of this week you have to
put it in to rerun in April. You should ask for a five percent salary reduction for
the administrative staff in the district for two years during the time of the levy.
The ones that got large pay raise should give back 50%; and then restore it in two
years. The classified can take a three percent reduction in pay. I know unions will
need to vote. It might pass if it saves jobs. It's a small pay cut to keep people
working. Keep class sizes as small as possible. I taught school before where I had
75 students in class. I'd like to think I did a good job.
Kevin Walter: What to we do next? There is stress about the bond for the high
school. Most of us work in the private sector. Use the design and build bid
model. It will save 6—20%. Figure out what you need designed. Get bids. You
can make a decision in September. Update the bond that will come in less than
what you need. Say you are going to roll the bond back and this is now the levy
we want. People don’t care if it’s a bond or levy. When they open their property
taxes, education is the biggest amount. Learn what we have learned in
commercial private sector. There are people that know how to design buildings.
They’ll do the design work and they will build it. If they make a mistake they
pay. The current model—one with the architect is where we are going to pay.
Linda Quinn: We are using the GC/CM process.
Kevin Walter: Is it a design and build RFP?
Linda Quinn: I'm not sure I understand, but we might be good to talk later.
Randy Elsner: I'm a math teacher at Vista. It's my fourth year at Ferndale. I'm
also a coach. I coached swimming this year. I saw the drive from the boys and
was proud of them. I'm proud of the students who are here tonight who spoke. It
takes a lot of courage for them. I came to hear information. I live in Bellingham,
but have great support here. People have helped me as I progress in my career. A
lot of newer teachers are scared and looking to their future. I feel relatively safe
compared to others. It's very stressful. I've heard a lot of good ideas, sharing of
information. Bellingham Schools’ superintendent periodically sits down and
listens to parents at a small table forums; this may be an idea to use in Ferndale
to get more voices involved in children’s education. Personally [to Linda Quinn],
you wrote me a nice note when I came here. Thank you.
Holly Wibbens: I'm a teacher at Horizon Middle school and parent of four
children in Ferndale Schools. I've been teaching 23 years. I think my job is secure,
but who wants to teach in a district that is cut to barebones. Veteran teachers are
going to leave. You'll be left with inexperienced teachers. I don’t know if I will be
in Ferndale next year. I love Ferndale. If I don’t have budget, support staff,

11

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes—Community Forum February 24, 2020
bigger classes I will be stressed out and will leave. We are asked to do more with
less. It will severely impact your children. And more so than the extracurricular
stuff. As a board, you have to explain where the money is going; the jump of 20
plus million dollars. How much was for teacher raises? I don’t think voters
understand that. We have to know what we can tell voters. People are looking at
the numbers only. Do a little less of the levy for two years.
Rick S(?): I have two girls at Ferndale High School. The information I received for
the levy was pretty unclear. It gave the actual amount but it didn’t give what the
difference was going to be. What the added or less cost is going to be? A lot of
people didn’t know what the impact was going to be.
Derrik Shower: I'm from Ferndale. How many of you knew that three districts in
Whatcom County had a rate higher than Ferndale? There is a small group of
people that are in the “no” camp that are putting together a very specific
campaign to paint you as liars and mismanagers of funds. If you bring another
vote up, you need to put data behind to prove that you are not those things. It's
all I heard on Facebook. All I heard was that one side. It's a very polished group
doing targeted messages. Even today you are listening but what you are trying to
explain is disjointed. They have the same message, painting the same picture. I
want you to succeed. But if you don’t change the narrative you are going to lose
again. This is the first time I have been embarrassed to be part of Ferndale where
we can’t take care of our kids anymore. My parents immigrated from Austria in
1950 so I could get better education than they had. Whether I have kids in school
or not, I would vote yes. You are going to have to do something to pivot people
away from listening to the nos.
Melinda Cool: I appreciate those comments. I like data a lot. There is so much
complexity. We are wanting to give 100% truth, but it gets to the point that its
glazed over because it is so much. We hare “you didn’t tell us about that.” I hope
we can get that tight message that is truthful, is clear, and has more data for
people who want that.
Jeff Demorest: There are two main things that kept compounding. It's complex.
Mark did a good job of explaining rates changing. Why is the total budget
projected to grow so much over the next two years? Another thing is I appreciate
the courage of Joe and Peggy speaking today. They said what they felt. I listened
to Andrew's comments about the $2.50 or $2500 per student. If you ask $2.50 it is
not going to be that because we will hit the lid. If that is the case, why are we
sitting here asking $2.50 when we won’t get that. Think about what the $2500 per
student is going to be. Learn to live there. As property rates go up, Help people
understand property values going up

12

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes—Community Forum February 24, 2020
No further comments were received. Mr. McLaurin thanked audience members for
their attendance and input. He encouraged those who had additional comments to
contact board members or the district office. Contact information is available on the
district’s website. Mr. McLaurin noted that the school board would be discussing this
topic at its regular board meeting tomorrow evening, Tuesday, February 25, 2020.
Mr. McLaurin adjourned the forum at 9:07 p.m.

___________________________________
School Board President

____________________________
School Board Secretary

13

