Board Work Session Minutes
Monday, January 22, 2024
The Board of Directors held a Work Session on Monday, January 22, 2024. The meeting began at
6 pm and was held at District Office. Directors Cannon, Gray, Burchard, Nolan and Killman were
present. Also attending were Superintendent Travis Hanson, Chief Financial Officer Heather
Ellingson, Assistant Superintendent Heather Havens and Directors Keri Hutchins, Mark St.Clair
and Robin Placzek.
I.
Approval of the Agenda
Director Burchard made a motion to approve the agenda, as amended. (Item II - Union Stadium
Fees Discussion and Item III - January 8, 2024 First Reading Policy Revisions/Adoptions Discussion
were reversed, Item V - Assignments to Schools and Non-Resident Student Policy Revision
Discussion was tabled, and Item VII - Student Travel (Policy 2152) Discussion and Item VIII Proposed Legislation Discussion were added.) Director Gray seconded the motion. The motion
carried unanimously.
II.
January 8, 2024 First Reading Policy Revisions/Adoptions Discussion
At the January 8, 2024 Regular Board Meeting Policy 5222 (Job-Sharing Staff Members) and Policy
5050 (Contracts) were presented for first reading adoption consideration and Policy 2190 was
presented for first reading revision consideration. At that time questions were raised regarding
the paraeducator requirements set forth in Policy 5050.
Human Resources Director Keri Hutchins provided historical information on job requirements
for paraeducators noting in particular the legislature’s expansion of options to meet
requirements from one to four in the past year. Mead has adopted the Master Teacher Program
that includes 13 course offerings and two assessments to meet state paraeducator hiring
requirements.
Discussion included a review of the number of paraeducators currently working in the district,
the variety of job duties they perform and confirmation that all paraeducators employed by the
district meet the job requirements as set forth in Policy 5050. Proposed pay increases for
paraeducators currently under consideration by state legislators was also discussed.
Following a quick review of the other two policies that were presented for first reading
consideration on January 8th, and noting there were no proposed changes to any of these
policies, President Cannon confirmed all three policies can be brought forward for action via
Consent Agenda on February 12, 2024.
III.
Union Stadium Fees Discussion
A copy of current fees for Union Stadium and other district facilities was provided to each board
member.
Director Gray brought forward the use of Union Stadium by both Mead High School and Mt.
Spokane High School lacrosse clubs. When these groups have inquired about using Union
Stadium the fee quoted has been $1,200 (approx.). Discussion centered on whether or not this is
appropriate/excessive considering all who participate are Mead students/residents and their
parents are taxpayers. If lacrosse was a sanctioned WIAA sport there would be no fee for use as
lacrosse would be in same category as football.

Operational costs, the importance of treating all outside of school clubs/organizations in a
similar/consistent manner, what does it mean to be a “Mead sanctioned” sport and the goodwill
associated with allowing groups like the Mead and Mt. Spokane lacrosse clubs to use Union
Stadium at a lesser fee or no fee were additionally discussed.
This topic will be discussed in more detail at an upcoming Work Session were Facilities &
Planning Director Ned Wendle will be in attendance. Prior to the meeting Superintendent Hanson
will look into what it means to be “sanctioned” and/or “chartered”. The board was encouraged
to email Superintendent Hanson with additional questions and/or information they would like
presented at the upcoming Work Session on this topic.
IV.
Learning & Teaching Update
After first introducing themselves and briefly sharing their personal education/work
backgrounds, Learning & Teaching Assistant Superintendent Heather Havens, Director of
Secondary Education Mark St. Clair and Director of Elementary Education Robin Placzek
presented a high level overview of the work taking place in the Learning & Teaching Department.
Ms. Havens shared the team’s goal was for the presentation to be informal and conversational
in nature.
The update included the following:
•

•

An overview of the six areas included under the Learning & Teaching umbrella:
Elementary Education (4700 students), Secondary Education (6000 students), Special
Education (1700 students), Career & Technical Education (4100 students), Student &
Family Services and Data & Assessment. As part of this overview Ms. Havens noted, with
the many budget cuts that have taken place over the past few years, that Learning &
Teaching staff has been reduced by seven full-time positions and there has not been
money for curriculum adoptions in many years.
An overview/explanation/update on the following Learning & Teaching Strategic
Priorities:
o
o
o

Instructional Leadership
Multi-Tiered Systems of Support
Professional Learning Communities

In particular, the 2025 state deadline to have a solidified MTSS plan in place, and district
progress toward meeting this requirement, were reviewed. Additionally, the work taking
place during Wednesday morning PLC time was covered in detail and included a review
of the Four Critical Questions of a Professional Learning Community: #1 – What do we
want every student to know and be able to do? #2 – How do we know they know it or can
do it? #3 – What do we do if they don’t know it or can’t do it? #4 – What do we do if they
already know it or already can do it? PLC accomplishments and challenges were also
covered.
Discussion included a request from Director Nolan for more information on the data the district
is using to inform decisions, the importance of application not just regurgitation and a request
from President Cannon that Learning & Teaching, during an upcoming update, walk the board
through a couple of specific case studies.
Regarding future curriculum adoptions, Superintendent Hanson noted the current reality of
being in a “space between two worlds” and the importance of navigating/integrating these two
models (i.e., the purchase of a standalone text and supporting materials versus curriculum that
includes the ability to access online materials that will meet the specific learning needs of a wide
range of students.) Discussion included the importance, from a public relations standpoint, of
providing very clear context and communication as the district considers future curriculum

adoptions. For many folks, talk of curriculum adoptions makes them nervous. They may also
wonder about the need to purchase curriculum as Mead students currently perform very well.
V.
Assignments to Schools and Non-Resident Student Policy Revision Discussion
Discussion on this topic was tabled until a later date.
VI.
Levy Action Plan Discussion
Discussion centered on what the district would/could do in the event the February 13th
Replacement Levy does not receive voter approval. Items of note included:
•
•

•
•
•

•
•
•
•

If the decision is made to rerun the levy should voters be asked to approve the same rate
or should a lesser rate be on the ballot. The absolute minimum rate needed for the district
to operate in a maintenance mode is $2.30.
For the past several years the district has accessed monies from its fund balance to
balance the budget. Reductions have been kept as far away from the classroom as
possible. At the end of the current school year unrestricted fund balance will be at a
historically low level.
The many things that have impacted the budget in the last several years were reviewed.
These included enrollment that has not rebounded following the pandemic, loss of LEA
funding and loss of Regionalization.
Understanding there are only two opportunities in a calendar year to ask voters to
consider the levy, the pros and cons of rerunning in April versus August versus November
were discussed.
All things considered, and noting in particular the deadline of May 15th to issue Reduction
in Force (RIF) notices to certificated staff, it was determined rerunning in April would be
best even though that would involve a very quick turn-around as election paperwork must
be finalized by February 23rd.
Regarding levy tax rate, every 10 cents equals approximately one million dollars.
In preparation for the possibility of needing to rerun the levy in April, a Special Board
Meeting was scheduled for February 14th.
A ThoughtExchange survey will be drafted/ready to send to obtain community feedback
on why the measure failed and what changes need to be made prior to rerunning.
No matter the outcome, a sustainable budget must be a priority.

VII.
Student Travel (Policy 2152) Discussion
Policy 2152, in the Special Event Trips section, states: “As a general rule, a Special Event Trip,
such as a trip by a high school band to Disneyland, will be approved for a group once every four
years.” President Cannon shared he has been approached by both high school band booster
groups regarding this requirement/restriction. He personally does not recall the board, when
this provision was added/approved in August 2021, engaging in a discussion about the impact
of this policy change. For band parents it feels like this is a new rule being thrown at them.
Discussion included the importance of consistency between athletic participation opportunities
and performing arts participation opportunities. Superintendent Hanson noted the Special Event
Trips section is not specific to band but also references, as examples, student leadership
conferences and a wrestling team trip to the Midwest. The funding requirements of HB 1660
were also reviewed.
Prior to the board’s next Work Session Superintendent Hanson will meet with band directors to
hear from them on this topic.
VIII. Proposed Legislation Discussion
Superintendent Hanson asked that board members email him with any bills currently under
consideration that are of concern to them. In particular, the importance of local school boards
retaining control of curriculum was discussed. This included the possibility of the board, at some

point in the future, sending a letter, similar to what was sent a few years ago regarding sex
education, to the legislature regarding curriculum.
IX.
Superintendent Update
Superintendent Hanson reported he had nothing further to share.
X.
Adjourn
The meeting was adjourned at 9:55 pm.

President

Secretary

