Board Work Session Minutes
Monday, May 20, 2024
The Board of Directors held a Work Session on Monday, May 20, 2024. The meeting began at 6:10
pm and was held at District Office. Directors Cannon, Gray, Burchard, Nolan and Killman were
present. Also attending were Superintendent Travis Hanson, Chief Financial Officer Heather
Ellingson and Director of Secondary Education Mark St. Clair.
I.
Approval of the Agenda
Director Nolan made a motion to approve the agenda, as presented. Director Burchard seconded
the motion. The motion carried unanimously.
II.
2023-2024 Out of Endorsement Review
Information on the teachers in the Mead School District teaching outside of their endorsement
area/s during the 2023-2024 school year was presented to board members for their review and
questions prior to the list being included on the June 10, 2024 Consent Agenda. Documentation
of board approval of teachers teaching out of endorsement is a required element of the district’s
annual OSPI Educator Equity Report.
III.
May 6, 2024 First Reading Policy/Procedure Discussion
At the May 6, 2024 Regular Board Meeting a revision to Policy/Procedure 2410 (High School
Graduation Requirements) and the adoption of Policy/Procedure 6101 (Federal Cash and
Financial Management) and Policy/Procedure 6106 (Allowable Costs for Federal Programs) were
presented for first reading, non-action consideration.
In Procedure 2410, based on first reading feedback, Director of Secondary Education Mark St.
Clair presented revised language regarding homeschool credits that now states: Homeschool
credits and course work will be examined for the purpose of meeting graduation requirements.
This new wording replaces the following sentence: Acceptance or non-acceptance of
homeschooling coursework for the purpose of meeting a graduation requirement is the
prerogative of the Mead School District. Board members liked this new, somewhat less
prescriptive language.
Regarding the teaching of patriotism that was a part of the May 6th first reading discussion
regarding Policy/Procedure 2410, President Cannon suggested social studies teachers be invited
to an upcoming Work Session to talk about how the topic is incorporated into their lessons.
On the subject of social studies curriculum, Superintendent Hanson shared Learning & Teaching
Assistant Superintendent Heather Havens is doing a system wide curriculum audit to determine
curriculum priorities.
Following additional discussion, President Cannon confirmed all three policies/procedures can
be brought forward for second reading action via Consent Agenda on June 10, 2024.
IV.
Student Travel Policy Discussion
Regarding Policy 2152, Student Travel, discussion centered on the sentence in the Special Event
Trips section that states: As a general rule, a Special Event Trip, such as a trip by a high school
band to Disneyland, will be approved for a group once every four years. It was noted this
provision is currently applied very inconsistently and that band directors, in particular, feel it is
arbitrarily limiting to their programs. The costs associated with a Special Event Trip were
discussed including the implications of House Bill 1660 on the school district and booster

organizations. It was suggested the trip approval form include information on the financial
status of the requesting program.
President Cannon recommended a revision to the policy, removing the sentence that references
the general rule of a Special Event Trip being approved every four years, be presented for board
consideration at an upcoming business meeting. It was additionally mentioned that the exclusion
of board approval for travel to British Columbia should also be considered for removal from the
policy.
Superintendent Hanson referenced the Trip Planning Guide that is a part of Procedure 2152 and
shared the district will be doing a comprehensive review of the guide with revisions forthcoming.
V.
Graduation Ceremonies
Discussion on which board members will be in attendance at upcoming graduation ceremonies
for Mead Learning Options, Mt. Spokane High School and Mead High School took place. Directors
Burchard, Cannon and Nolan will be in attendance at the June 6th Mead Learning Options
ceremony, Directors Nolan and Gray will help with diploma distribution at Mt. Spokane’s
ceremony with Director Cannon also in attendance, and Directors Cannon and Killman will help
with diploma distribution at the Mead High School graduation. Both ceremonies take place on
June 7th at GU’s McCarthey Athletic Center – Mt. Spokane HS at 5 pm followed by Mead HS at 8
pm.
VI.
2024-2025 Budget Discussion
The budget discussion started with Chief Financial Officer Heather Ellingson sharing information
on the proposed 2024-2025 budget for the Transportation Vehicle Fund and the Capital Projects
Fund.
Regarding the Transportation Vehicle Fund, Ms. Ellingson talked about the unpredictable timing
of when buses are ordered and when they actually arrive and must be paid for. Transportation
Vehicle Funds, with the exception of possibly a big engine repair, can only be spent to purchase
buses. In 2024-2025 the district plans to buy two electric buses and two diesel buses. The cost
to install the charging infrastructure for the electric buses will be covered with grant dollars.
As part of the review of the Capital Projects Fund Ms. Ellingson noted the listed expenditures
will complete remaining projects associated with the 2018 Bond.
For the General Fund, Ms. Ellingson provided updated revenue and expenditure information for
2024-2025. As compared to the information shared at the April 22nd Work Session, revenues have
been reduced to reflect, in particular, lower kindergarten enrollment. Expenditures are the same,
although there have been a number of offsetting reductions and additions. For example, the
increase in insurance premiums that was originally projected to be 20% will be 30% and the
district will be saving money by not replacing the elementary assistant principal position being
vacated by Brenda Goehring who is retiring.
Responding to board questions from the April 22nd Work Session, Ms. Ellingson shared the
following:
•
•
•

The district runs 9 activity buses that serve approximately 120 students with an
associated cost of $100,000.
The intercom at Mead High School is fine, the problem is the sound system.
Repair/replacement of sound systems is typically a building budget expense. Following
discussion, Ms. Ellingson shared she will check into replacement costs.
As a percentage of the whole, salary and benefit cost information for the past ten years
was shared. In 2013/14 the percentage was 84.3%, dropped in 2017/18 to 81.5% and is
currently 85%.

In conclusion, Ms. Ellingson reported the budget includes both lease capacity and Safety Net
capacity. Safety Net monies help offset expenses associated with high needs special education
students. While overall enrollment is down, special education enrollment continues to increase.
The district anticipates starting the school year over the new 16% special education funding cap.
VII.
Levy Survey Review/Discussion
Following the February levy ballot measure the district asked the community to provide feedback
via a survey posted on the district’s website. For those who voted “no” the number one reason
for this vote was related to the economy. Those who voted “yes” noted the importance of
investing in public education. Survey results and ThoughtExchange themes/comments will be
forwarded to the board for more extensive review.
VIII. Superintendent Update
Superintendent Hanson provided the following update on administrative staffing:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Troy Hughes (current Northwood Principal) will serve as Mead High School AD as a
Principal on Special Assignment.
Rick Pelkie (current Mead HS Assistant Principal) will be the Northwood Middle School
Principal.
Matt Walter (current Northwood Assistant Principal) will be the Prairie View Principal.
Jeff Naslund (current Prairie View Principal) will be the Director of Secondary Education
replacing Mark St. Clair who is retiring.
Andrea Staton (current Brentwood Assistant Principal) will take a leave from her current
position to serve as Special Education Assistant Director for the 24/25 school year.
Jeff Roberts has been hired as a Mountainside Middle School Assistant Principal replacing
Jon Iverson who is retiring.

It was shared that the district has very good internal professionals stepping into new roles. Three
assistant principal positions remain unfilled and have been posted.
Another topic discussed was parent volunteers at the high school level. Conversations about
how to incorporate volunteers at the secondary level are ongoing.
Regarding the football situation at Mead High School and athletics/activities in general, Director
of Secondary Education Mark St. Clair shared a list of action steps that have been taken and will
be taken. It was suggested by President Cannon, to help promote community engagement in
athletics, that a stakeholder parent committee, similar to the current Technology Advisory
Committee, be formed. The importance of consequences and the concept of “earning back
privileges” was brought forward. Director Killman noted that football parents are still looking
for answers. Superintendent Hanson explained that any questions he is able to answer, taking
into consideration legal and privacy constraints, were provided at the recent parent meeting.
Noting the section in the Athletic/Activities Handbook that references violations “during the
school year” it was shared that the district is still looking very carefully at discipline
consequences. Director Nolan indicated that, at an appropriate time, he would like to hear about
staff level disciplinary actions.
IX.
Adjourn
The meeting was adjourned at 8:40 pm.

President

Secretary

