SPECIAL WEBINAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES
Mead School District Board of Directors
Tuesday, July 2, 2024

The Board of Directors held a Special Webinar Board Meeting on Tuesday, July 2, 2024.
The meeting began at 11 am. Directors Cannon, Gray, Burchard, and Nolan were
present. Director Killman was excused. Also attending were Superintendent Travis
Hanson and Facilities & Planning Director Ned Wendle.
I.
Approval of Agenda
Director Gray made a motion to approve the meeting agenda, as presented. Director
Burchard seconded the motion. The motion carried unanimously.
II.
Public Comment on Agenda Item
There were no public comments on the one agenda item - Real Estate Purchase
Approval.
III.
Real Estate Purchase Approval
Facilities & Planning Director Ned Wendle presented for board consideration the
purchase of 153 acres (three parcels) of land intended for use as a future school site.
Purchase specifics were shared with the board during a recent Executive Session. The
negotiated purchase price for the land, known as the Cuzzetto Farms Property, is $2.4
million ($15,000/acre). All due diligence has been completed. The district’s Capital
Projects Fund currently has $2.8 million that is earmarked for the purchase of a future
school site/s.
Discussion primarily focused on water rights. The land is located within the
boundaries of Whitworth Water District and a private well currently provides water to
the property. Even though the land is not presently located in the UGA (Urban Growth
Area), recently passed legislation allows for water to be provided to property outside
of the UGA where a school is being built.
Mr. Wendle shared the building presently located on the property will, in the near
future, be demolished. Demolition costs are approximately $200,000. Should the
district find it does not need the entire 153 acres the excess property can, in the
future, be sold and/or traded. There are no resell limitations.
Upon closing, the property will be leased to a local farmer. While the net monetary
benefit from the lease is nominal, by leasing the land the district will not need to mow
to keep noxious weeds under control.
Director Nolan made a motion to approve the purchase of the 153 acres (3 parcels),
known as the Cuzzetto Farms Property, as presented. Director Burchard seconded the
motion. The motion carried unanimously.
Director Burchard thanked Mr. Wendle and his team for their work and Director Nolan
noted the negotiated price is a great value for the land.

IV.
Adjourn
The meeting was adjourned at 11:30 am.

President

Secretary

