Minutes from the Regular Meeting of the Board of Directors
Monday, February 12, 2024
The Board of Directors held a Regular Board Meeting on Monday, February 12, 2024. This meeting
was held in-person and virtually via a Zoom link posted on the Mead School District website.
Directors Cannon, Gray, Burchard, Killman and Nolan were present. Also attending were
Superintendent Travis Hanson, Chief Financial Officer Heather Ellingson and Assistant
Superintendents Heather Havens and Jared Hoadley.
I.
Pledge of Allegiance
The meeting began with President Cannon asking all to rise for the Pledge of Allegiance.
II.
Approval of Agenda
Director Nolan made a motion to approve the meeting agenda, as amended (discussion on
proposed state level legislation was added). Director Gray seconded the motion. The motion
carried unanimously.
III.
Approval of Minutes
Director Killman made a motion to approve the minutes of the January 8, 2024 Regular Board
Meeting and January 22, 2024 Work Session, as presented. Director Nolan seconded the motion.
The motion carried unanimously.
IV.
Remarks for the Good of the Schools – Public Comment on Agenda Items
President Cannon first opened the floor for high school ASB updates and a presentation from
Farwell Elementary ASB students. This was followed by board/staff comments. There were no
individuals who signed up to speak on agenda items.
Mt. Spokane High School Report
Prior to presenting a brief review of the academic, athletic, leadership and music events recently
completed and upcoming at Mt. Spokane High School, ASB President Stetson Gilbert, along with
the other current ASB officers, introduced the following newly elected (2024/25) officers:
President
Vice President
Secretary
Treasurer
Public Relations

Current Officers
Stetson Gilbert
Ryan Lafferty
Bre Koscelski
Ben Joireman
Sam Davidson

Newly Elected Officers
Jayson Bonnett
Alex Cloer
Lanice Airey
Lucas Dickau
Seth McCready

Winter Sports teams, along with Cheerleaders, have had very successful seasons with most
qualifying for post-season/state competitions. Of particular note is the GSL Championship
earned by the boys basketball team. Drama students just completed One Act Play performances,
Spring Sports starts in two weeks and 40 students have qualified for State DECA. Planning is
underway for both the upcoming Sadie Hawkins Dance and Senior Prom.
Mead High School Report
Three of Mead High School’s newly elected ASB officers were in attendance (Zealand Franklin –
President, Tabitha Pierce – Secretary & Sophia Ji - Treasurer) and presented a brief review of the

academic, athletic, leadership and music events recently completed and upcoming at Mead High
School. The girls basketball team is GSL Champion, gymnastics is GSL Champion and wrestling,
this past weekend, was crowned the 3A Regional Champion qualifying 17 wrestlers for State.
Twelve students have qualified for State Debate. Following a very successful showing at State,
Cheerleaders will now compete at Nationals. The ASB Class, on March 6th, will be hosting a
Cultural Night.
Farwell Elementary ASB Presentation
Seventeen Farwell Elementary ASB students, using the letters F A R W E L L F A L C O N S,
highlighted the many things that make Farwell Elementary a great place to go to school. Students
(listed below) were accompanied by teacher/advisor June Lamberd and Principal Josh VanCleef.
Anhela Perez
Skyler Chapman
Brady Homchick
Keena Eilmes
Cara Maefsky
Karis Brown
Penelope Martinez
Khaled Taib
Jaxson Merrit

Bransen Prestley
Payton Mariscola
Jozlyn Thompson-Morgan
Olivia Sutton
Wyatt Sutton
McKenna Longie
Payton Kelly
Ariel Pham

Board/Staff Comments
Director Gray shared she was able to attend the One Act Plays at Mt. Spokane High School. The
performances were excellent and content was very creative.
Director Killman shared she recently had the privilege of serving as a judge/adjudicator at
Farwell Elementary in a mock courtroom setting where students presented cases for or against
various fairy tale characters. President Cannon added that he will do the same on February 13th.
V.

Continuing Business
A.
Consent Agenda A – 2nd Reading Policy Adoptions & Revisions
President Cannon, prior to asking for a motion to approve Consent Agenda A, which includes
policies that were presented for first reading adoption or revision on January 8, 2024, noted no
first reading changes were recommended, and provided background/context for having policies,
where no first reading changes are recommended, be approved as part of a stand-alone second
reading Consent Agenda. Each of these policies is considered essential by WSSDA.
Director Gray made a motion to approve Consent Agenda A, as presented. Director Burchard
seconded the motion. The motion carried unanimously.
Consent Agenda A
1.

Approved the following 2 Reading Policy Adoptions or Revisions:
nd

•
•
•

VI.

Policy 5222 Adoption – Job-Sharing Staff Members
Policy 2190 Revision – Highly Capable Programs
Policy 5050 Adoption - Contracts

New Business
A.
Consent Agenda B
In response to a question from Director Gray, Chief Financial Officer Heather Ellingson shared
the $11,365.25 payment to ALSC was associated with the heating system at Pittsburgh Learning
Center and the $16,206.11 payment, also to ALSC, was for design work connected to the new
Nutrition Services freezer.

President Cannon directed attention to donations listed on the Consent Agenda. After reading
the name and donation amount from each community partner, he expressed thanks and
appreciation for their generosity.
Director Killman made a motion to approve Consent Agenda B, as presented. Director Burchard
seconded the motion. The motion carried unanimously.
Consent Agenda B
1.

2.

3.

Hired Certificated Personnel:
Tarah Martin

Mead Learning Options

Cert

Saralynne Ziegler

Northwood

Cert

Opal Harbert

Mead Learning Options

Cert

Aaron Bagnall

Mt. Spokane

Cert

Stefani Stevens

Special Services

Cert

Hired Classified Personnel:
Mikaylee Roberts

Shiloh Hills

Class

Emily Boyzo
Rogelio Carbajal
Asia Chapman
John Coyne
Nicole Daley
Sarah Lockett
Logan Phelps
Molly Sorensen
Lori Wilson
Anna Downs
Laura Ketcham
Angela Alas Ramirez
Joanna Netzel
Annastasia Winters
Randall Plischke

Mead HS
Transportation
Custodial Services
Custodial Services
Mead HS
Shiloh Hills
Mead HS
Shiloh Hills
Transportation
Farwell
Mead HS
Mead HS
Shiloh Hills
Prairie View
Mead HS

Class
Class
Class
Class
Class
Class
Class
Class
Class
Class
Class
Class
Class
Class
Class

Theresa King
Jason Keen
Phillip Terrell

Falza Khan
Stephanie McCartney

Emily McCollim
Makenna Pelletier

Jennifer Looney
Cortnie Turner
Jennifer Miller

Deborah Attaway
Carolyn Cvitanich
Christopher Munden

Hired Classified Substitutes:
Laura Williams
Shauna Jones
Brian Jimenez

5.

1.0 FTE Soar Program Director effective 1/2/24 –
8/31/24
6.15 hrs/day DLC Para Ed effective 1/11/24
4 hrs/day Itinerant Driver effective 1/16/24
8 hrs/day Custodian effective 1/18/24
8 hrs/day Custodian effective 1/18/24
3.6 hrs/day Para Ed effective 12/18/23
6.25 hrs/day Para Ed effective 1/4/24
6.15 hrs/day Para Ed effective 1/11/24
6.25 hrs/day Para Ed effective 1/4/24
4 hrs/day Itinerant Driver effective 1/4/24
4.25 hrs/day Para Ed effective 1/16/24
6.15 hrs/day Para Ed effective 1/16/24
6.15 hrs/day Para Ed effective 1/8/24
6.25 hrs/day Para Ed effective 1/24/24
7.00 hrs/day Behavior Tech effective 1/18/24
6.15 hrs/day Para Ed effective 1/16/24

Hired Certificated Substitutes:
Hannah Pelkie
Noah Johnson
Frances Peterson

4.

.6 FTE Leave Replacement teacher effective 1/8/24
– 6/14/24
1.0 FTE Leave Replacement Life Skills/ELA Support
teacher effective 1/11/24 – 6/14/24
.3 FTE Leave Replacement teacher effective 1/5/24
– 6/14/24 (in addition to .2 FTE Leave Replacement
23/24 school year and .5 FTE Continuing)
.6 FTE Leave Replacement teacher 2nd semester
23/24 (in addition to .4 FTE Leave Replacement)
.8 FTE Non-Continuing OT effective 1/29/24 –
6/14/24

Jenn Gamon
Jolene Cooney
Melissa McVay

Approved AP Vouchers for General Fund, Capitol Projects, Private Purpose Trust & ASB.

Vouchers audited and certified by auditing officers as required by RCW 42.24.080, and those expense
reimbursement claims certified as required by RCW 42.24.090, have been recorded on a listing which has
been made available to the Board. As of this day, February 12, 2024, the Board, by a unanimous vote does
approve for payment the vouchers included in the above referenced list and further described as Warrant
Numbers 114830 to 115353 in the following amounts:
Fund
General Fund - AP
General Fund – PR
ASB Fund
Capital Projects Fund

6.

Amount
$ 1,600,784.51
11,167,609.51
119,561.71
110,673.00

Approved Co-Curricular, Supplemental & Extra-Curricular contracts.

7.

Accepted the Following Donation:
•
•
•

8.

$500.00 from Spokane Teachers Credit Union to DLC Olympics
$1600.00 from Coca-Cola (annual funding)
$3435.45 from Daines Capital to Mead HS Football Program

Approved Requests for Unpaid Leave (i.e., parenting, medical, Good of the District, etc.):
Jessica Klingback
Kathy Morgan
Erin Nosbaum
Kaleigh Bussiere
Susan Kuhlman
Jayme Marquardt
Alaina Scoggin
Heidi Boydston
Jessica Cornwell

9.

Cert
Class
Class
Class
Class
Class
Class
Class
Class

1/2/24 – 1/26/24 (.6 FTE)
1/22/24 – 2/1/24
2/8/24 – 2/14/24
3/4/24 – 3/8/24
5/16/24 – 5/20/24
3/15/24 – 3/19/24
3/26-27/24
Extending prior approved leave through 4/19/24
2/28/24 – 3/7/24

Approved Request to Rescind Unpaid Leave (i.e., parenting, medical, Good of the District,
etc.):
Jessica Klingback

10.

Mt. Spokane
Creekside
Farwell
Shiloh Hills
Highland
Brentwood
Evergreen
Farwell
Transportation

Mt. Spokane

Cert

.4 FTE 2nd Semester

Accepted Requests for Retirement/Resignation:
Tammy Barrington
Deborah Bone
Allen Hussein
Tanaisha Marlin-Darbouze
Carolee McCaslin
Debra Reil
David Stedman
Angela Alas Ramirez

Mead HS
Special Services
Brentwood
Shiloh Hills
Farwell
Special Services
Mead HS
Mead HS

Class
Cert
Class
Class
Class
Class
Cert
Class

Retirement effective 3/1/24 (Admin Asst)
Retirement effective 8/30/24 (OT)
Resignation effective 1/31/24 (Para Ed)
Resignation effective 2/6/24 (Para Ed)
Retirement effective 12/31/23 (Para Ed)
Retirement effective 8/30/24 (Admin Asst)
Retirement effective 8/30/24 (teacher)
Resignation effective 1/9/24 (Para Ed)

B.

Student Travel Proposal
Mead High School Volleyball
Learning & Teaching Assistant Superintendent Heather Havens presented, for board
consideration, a travel request from Mead High School Varsity Volleyball (12 athletes plus two
coaches/chaperones) to travel to Phoenix, Arizona, October 3-6, 2024, to participate in the Nike
Tournament of Champions. 96 teams from across the United States will take part in this event.
The estimated per student cost is $150 for food with fundraisers available. The team’s ASB
account will be used to cover the remaining trip expenses. Students will miss two days of school
and Mr. Wilson (head coach) will need a substitute teacher for two days.
Following discussion, Director Gray made a motion to approve the request from Mead High
School Varsity Volleyball to travel to Phoenix, Arizona, October 3-6, 2024, to participate in the
Nike Tournament of Champions, as presented. Director Nolan seconded the motion. The motion
carried unanimously.
C.
Network Switching Equipment Contract
Network Administrator Dave Willyard presented, for board consideration, a contract with
Ednetics to purchase network switching equipment that will support schools across the district.
Six firms (Ednetics, CDWG, MicoK12, Compunet, Cytrnet and Cerium Networks) submitted
proposals. Ednetics was the selected vendor, scoring 99 out of 100 on the seven bid factors. A
recap of bid scoring was provided to board members.
The cost for the network equipment, including tax, totals $497,970.61. This equipment is eligible
for Federal E-Rate funding in the amount of approximately $298,782.37. Therefore, if Federal ERate funding is awarded, the amount of district money needed for the purchase is approximately
$199,188.25.
In response to board questions, Mr. Willyard explained E-Rate funding, that subsidizes
technology infrastructure purchases like network switches, has been accessed by the district

many times in the past to help defray costs. While there are specific steps that must be followed
to receive E-Rate funding, completing the process is well worth the time and effort. E-Rate
funding for the presented contract will result in a 60% discount. Funding stipulations include
the requirement that the purchased materials be installed in schools, cannot be resold and must
be in service for a specific period of time.
In response to a question from Director Killman regarding “why” the equipment needs to be
purchased, Mr. Willyard explained the switches being replaced are 8 years old and, therefore,
very near end of life. With the exception of the district’s newest schools, the new equipment will
be installed district wide. Switching equipment is present in every classroom and runs
constantly. The new switching equipment will be installed in-house by district technicians. This
equipment is essential as it, among other things, provides the technology infrastructure for
intercoms and door locks.
In response to a question from Director Burchard, Mr. Willyard shared the reason for
recommending the bid be awarded to Ednetics – Meraki (2nd lowest bid) rather than Ednetics –
Juniper (lowest bid) is the compatibility of the product with equipment already in service
throughout the district.
Director Nolan made a motion to award the network switching equipment contract to Ednetics,
as presented. Director Burchard seconded the motion. The motion carried unanimously.
D.

1st Reading Procedure 3131 Revision
Assignment to Schools
Student & Family Services Director Josh Westermann presented a revision to Procedure 3131,
Assignment to Schools, for first reading, non-action, consideration. This procedure was adopted
on May 10, 1978, and was last revised on November 20, 2006.
For intra-district transfers, in an effort to be very transparent and clear with families, the revision
includes clarifying language for both elementary and secondary transfers. At the elementary
level approved intra-district transfers are for one academic year only. At the conclusion of the
academic year students are re-enrolled in their neighborhood school. To continue enrollment in
a school outside of their assigned school a new Intra-District Transfer form must be
completed/submitted. Forms are accepted for the upcoming school year beginning in March.
At the secondary level, once an intra-district transfer is approved, the student may remain at the
new school as long as things are going well. Secondary intra-district transfer requests are
primarily reviewed in June, August and January.
The presented revision additionally includes having paperwork submitted to the office of
Student & Family Services rather than to the school principal. For the upcoming 2024/25 school
year transfer paperwork will be completed and submitted online.
With registration for next year starting in March, Mr. Westermann shared it is his hope the
presented revision can be considered for action at the upcoming March 11th board business
meeting.
In response to board questions, Mr. Westermann shared parents are notified of intra-district
transfer decisions via a letter from Student & Family Services. Letters reminding parents about
the need to reapply for the upcoming school year will be sent out shortly. At the secondary level,
while there are requests received for a change at semester, applications received mid-year are
far fewer than at the start of the year. In special circumstances a transfer can be approved at any
time.
No first reading changes were recommended.

E.

1st Reading Policy 3141 Revision
Non-Resident Students
Student & Family Services Director Josh Westermann presented a revision to Policy 3141, NonResident Students, for first reading, non-action, consideration. This policy was adopted on March
17, 1991 and was last revised on June 13, 2016.
The presented revision adds clarifying language stating that non-resident applications received
after August 15th will be evaluated for acceptance after the first day of school. Language has also
been added stating that enrollment numbers will be evaluated annually to determine which
schools are able to accommodate non-resident students.
In response to a question from Director Nolan, Mr. Westermann shared the district currently has
several hundred K-12 out-of-district/non-resident students. Both Director Gray and Director
Burchard expressed their desire, particularly in light of decreased enrollment that has not
rebounded following the pandemic, that the district be careful about limiting access and accept
as many non-resident students as possible. In response to a question from President Cannon,
Mr. Westermann shared the district receives the same amount of money from the state for
resident and non-resident students.
No first reading changes were recommended.
F.

1st Reading Policy & Procedure 4400 Adoption
Election Activities
Superintendent Hanson presented the adoption of Policy & Procedure 4400, Election Activities,
for first reading, non-action, consideration. This would be a new policy/procedure for the Mead
School District. This policy/procedure is considered by WSSDA to be essential.
WSSDA Sample Policy 4400 and Sample Procedure 4400 were used as templates for the presented
policy/procedure adoption. The policy acknowledges the district’s responsibility to educate and
instill civic responsibility by appropriately informing the community about district and
education related ballot measures through objective and fair presentation of the facts related to
those measures. It additionally references board adopted resolutions on district levy and bond
measures and the equal opportunity that must be provided for views on both sides of a ballot
measure to be expressed.
The procedure (19 pages) includes PDC guidelines for local government agencies in election
campaigns and the use of public facilities in campaigns.
The presented policy/procedure complies with state and federal law and current district
practice.
No first reading changes were recommended.
G.

1st Reading Policy & Procedure 4218 Adoption
Language Access
Superintendent Hanson presented the adoption of Policy & Procedure 4218, Language Access,
for first reading, non-action, consideration. This would be a new policy/procedure for the Mead
School District. This policy/procedure is considered by WSSDA to be essential.
WSSDA Sample Policy 4218 and Sample Procedure 4218 were used as templates for the presented
policy/procedure adoption. The policy affirms the board’s commitment to improving two-way
communication and, in particular, addresses students whose family members may have limited
English proficiency by directing the district to develop and adopt a plan for implementing and

maintaining a language access program. The policy states that the district’s language access plan
will adhere to the principles of an effective language access program.
The procedure, which sets forth processes for the implementation of Policy 4218, in addition to
a definitions section, includes information on:
•
•
•
•

Language Access Program & Plan Development
Self-Assessment
Identification of Families Needing Language Access Services
Interpretation and Translation Services

For reference, and to provide additional information on the requirements related to the state’s
language access legislation, copies of two OSPI publications were provided to board members.
To provide additional context, Superintendent Hanson noted Robin Placzek, Special Programs
Director, and ELD staff, later in the meeting, would be sharing information with the board on the
program provided by the district to multilingual learners.
The presented policy/procedure complies with state and federal law.
No first reading changes were recommended.
VII.

Reports
A.
ELD Update
Special Programs Director Robin Placzek, and ELD teacher Kim Perdue, presented overview
information on the district’s Multilingual Program. Information shared included the following:
•

•

•

•

Mission Statement
The priority of the Mead School District Multilingual Program is to assure equity and
excellence in education, promoting high-quality instruction and meaningful school
engagement for Multilingual Students (MLs), leading to post-secondary pathways, careers,
civic engagement, and global citizenship. This includes incorporating and encouraging
bilingualism and the unique linguistic and cultural asset of our MLs, their families, and the
community they represent.
Who We Are
o 9 Certificated Teachers
o 2 Paraeducators
o 1 Director
o 1 Support Specialist
Who We Serve
o 465 multilingual learners receive support
o 100 multilingual learners are monitored
o 48 different languages represented in MSD
o TK-12th grade teachers receive coaching and support for working with multilingual
learners
What We Do
o Identification and assessment of students
o English Language Development instruction
o Content area instruction
o Collaboration with classroom teachers, interventionists, specialists and
administrators
o Family engagement

Ms. Perdue, a veteran (27 years) teacher, shared what a typical day looks like for her at Shiloh
Hills Elementary where she supports 81 TK-5th grade multilingual learners. ELD teachers teach

the basics (asking where the restroom is) up to and including vocational and grammar support.
They additionally work closely with families to help them with their English skills. In referencing
the program’s high graduation rate, Ms. Perdue shared the story of an Iraqi family who entered
the country in 2012 with three children. Not only have the parents continued their education,
but the two oldest children, following high school graduation, attended the University of
Washington. The third is a high school senior. It is a pleasure for ELD teachers to help
multilingual learners reach their goals.
In response to a question from Director Burchard about how a limited number of staff can serve
the needs of so many students, Ms. Placzek talked about the importance of collaboration
between ELD staff and gen ed teachers.
In response to a question from Director Gray, Ms. Placzek shared, with regard to translation of
information to families, that translations are ready by default in the top five languages.
Translations for other languages are available via various apps. Regarding Snow Days, families
have been instructed in advance how to access that type of information.
B.
Financial Report for the Month of December 2023
Chief Financial Officer Heather Ellingson shared a brief financial report for the month of
December 2023. Enrollment, based on January 2nd numbers, has stabilized. It is anticipated
enrollment may be slightly higher in February with the start of second semester. As anticipated,
the January state apportionment was lower reflecting actual rather than budgeted enrollment.
The state currently caps Special Education reimbursement at 15%. The district is currently 31
students over the cap. While thankful the percentage has increased from 13.5% last year to 15%
this year, the district is hopeful the state will increase or remove the cap. The increase from
13.5% to 15% equates to approximately $1 million.
Cash flow is better than anticipated and, therefore, Ms. Ellingson shared she is less concerned
about needing to take out a loan later in the year to meet payroll obligations.
Regarding enrollment projections for 2024/25, the district will be looking at another low birth
rate for the incoming kindergarten class. That will be factored into staffing allocations. Even
with passage of the levy the district will need to look at right sizing in areas.
C.
Superintendent’s Report
Superintendent Hanson noted/shared information on the following:
•
•

•
•
•
•

Registration for next year is right around the corner. Additional information will be
shared on this topic in the future.
Regarding the recent frigid temperatures in the area, many employees stepped up in a
variety of behind the scenes ways to get food from one school to another because of
disrupted kitchen water supplies (Kim Elkins – Nutrition Services Director and Mark
Oswalt – Nutrition Services Assistant Director) and attend to multiple broken pipes
(Travis Bown – Maintenance Director). Thanks to each of these individuals and their staff
for admirably handling each of these unique situations.
The district has fully transitioned to a new timekeeping system. Thanks to Keri Hutchins
for her leadership and to the entire HR Department for making this switch in software as
seamless as possible.
Elementary Conferences take place Wednesday – Friday this week.
The district held its annual Bridge Building Competition this past Saturday in the
Fieldhouse at Mead High School where a new 800 lb. record was set. This is a wonderful
opportunity for students in grades 5-12 to display their engineering skills.
The Tech Advisory Committee, led by Assistant Superintendent Jared Hoadley, has met
on a monthly basis since last May. Digital citizenship and parent resources are two areas

of concentration for the committee. Additional information will be shared on the work
of the committee in the very near future.
D.
Legislation Discussion
Discussion centered primarily on ESB 5462 and HB 2331 and concerns around the subverting of
local control, and encroachment on the authority granted to school boards, that would result if
these measures are passed. Avenues to express opposition were discussed including the
adoption of a Board Resolution, writing a letter from the board and/or individual testimony.
Superintendent Hanson read aloud a draft resolution expressing opposition, for the reasons
stated above, to ESB 5462 and HB 2331. President Cannon shared his opinion that a formal
resolution would carry more weight with legislators than a letter. Director Killman shared she
has heard from many community members who are concerned with these two bills. She plans to
testify on Wednesday to express her personal opposition to both bills.
Regarding the resolution language shared by Superintendent Hanson, Director Nolan shared his
preference for stronger opposition language. While public testimony on the measures takes place
on Wednesday, Superintendent Hanson shared hearing testimony is one step in the process . . .
not the final step. The board agreed on the importance of getting the resolution wording right
before taking action.
Director Nolan made a motion that the board make a statement opposing ESB 5452 and HB 2331
as written, pending board adoption of an official resolution in opposition to both bills. Director
Killman seconded the motion. The motion carried unanimously.
VIII. Remarks for the Good of the Schools – Public Comment on Non-Agenda Items
There were no public comments on non-agenda items.
IX.
Adjourn
The meeting was adjourned at 8 pm.

President

Secretary

