Board Work Session Minutes
Monday, November 4, 2024
The Board of Directors held a Work Session on Monday, November 4, 2024. The meeting began
at 6:00 pm and was held at District Office. Directors Cannon, Gray, Burchard, Nolan and Killman
were present. Also attending were Superintendent Travis Hanson, Chief Financial Officer Heather
Ellingson and Assistant Superintendent Jared Hoadley.
I.
Approval of the Agenda
Director Gray made a motion to approve the agenda, as amended (Safety & Security Report was
moved up in the agenda order to take place prior to Calendar Discussion and following Bond
Refunding Discussion). Director Nolan seconded the motion. The motion carried unanimously.
II.
Bond Refunding Discussion
Chief Financial Officer Heather Ellingson introduced Cory Plager of D.A. Davidson & Co. who
presented information to the board on the possibility of refunding 2015 bonds that will, in 2025,
be eligible for refunding/refinancing. Refunding of these bonds has the potential of saving
taxpayers approximately $4.2 million (net projected savings).
Information shared included:
• A review of election history for the Mead School District (levies & bonds).
• Notation that refunding reduces taxes paid by local taxpayers. It does not create new
money.
• Bonds issued by the Mead School District in 2015 are callable 90 days before the June 1,
2025 Call Date.
• The bond amount eligible for refunding is $40,280,000. This equates to a projected
refunding savings percentage of 9.79%.
• The current bond coupon interest rate is 4.79%. The projected new bond tax rate would
be slightly below 4% (10-year term).
Mr. Plager explained that, by law, a refunding must provide savings to taxpayers in each year
and cannot extend the term of the current bond. A bond rating review is customary to increase
investor demand. The district’s current bond rating is A1. While it is hoped the A1 rating would
not change upon review, even if it were lowered to A2 or A3 it would still make financial sense
to consider refunding.
Regarding timeline, the board will revisit this topic in the near future.
III.
Safety & Security Report
Business & Operations Assistant Superintendent Jared Hoadley briefly reviewed the following
safety and security measures that are in place throughout the district:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Single Point of Entry
Visitor Management – Volunteers
Visitor Management – Hall Pass Program
Power of Hello
Homeland Security Partnership
District and School Building Safety Meetings
School Safety Drills
Standard Response Protocol
Student Threat Assessment

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Anonymous Reporting and if you See Something, Say Something
AED and Stop the Bleed Kits
Cyber Protections – Filters and Protocols
Two-Factor Authentication
Student ID Cards and Bus Tracking
Spokane Sheriff Deputies as School Resource Deputies (SRDs)
Communication

Regarding the start-up of a new community Safety Task Force, Dr. Hoadley shared the district
will be soliciting volunteers via the upcoming Mead Matters newsletter. Discussion included the
importance of providing opportunities for the larger community to have opportunities to share
input/concerns with the task force. Board members were invited to send Dr. Hoadley suggested
priority areas for task force consideration. It is anticipated task force recommendations will be
presented to the board in April. The recently passed levy includes $1 million annually for safety
and security upgrades/expenditures.
Regarding Stop the Bleed kits, Dr. Hoadley noted there is currently a kit in the same cabinet that
houses AED devices at each district school/site. The district is working toward the goal of having
a kit in each classroom.
IV.
Calendar Discussion
Public Information Officer Todd Zeidler shared two calendar options for the upcoming school
year (25/26). The district has a long-standing practice of providing two calendar options for staff
to vote on each year. This is followed by board action/approval of the option that receives the
most staff votes.
The two presented options are very similar. In both options school starts the day after Labor
Day (September 2nd), Thanksgiving Break includes the Wednesday before Thanksgiving as a nonstudent day and Winter Break is two weeks. Option A has January 26th as a snow make-up day
with the last day of school being June 17th. In Option B January 26th is a regular school day, the
last day of school is June 16th and June 17th is designated as a snow make-up day.
Superintendent Hanson shared that in the 2025/2026 school year Mead and Spokane will be the
only school districts starting after Labor Day. Many school districts in the region have moved to,
or in 2026/27 have plans to move to, a more balanced calendar. Knowing that, Learning &
Teaching Assistant Superintendent Heather Havens, in December, will convene a calendar
committee to explore alternative calendar options for the Mead School District. A part of this
process will be reporting to the board in early spring and soliciting feedback from stakeholder
groups in-person and via a community survey.
Discussion included the importance of making sure there is early and transparent
communication with stakeholders when it comes to any substantive changes to the traditional
school year calendar.
V.
October 21, 2024 First Reading Policy/Procedure Discussion
At the October 21, 2024 Regular School Board Meeting the following five policies/procedures
were presented for first reading, non-action, revision or adoption:
•
•
•

Policy & Procedure 2162 (Adoption)
Education of Students With Disabilities Under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of
1973
Policy 2411 (Adoption)
High School Equivalency Certificate
Policy 2230 (Adoption)
Transition to Kindergarten Program

•
•

Policy 2108 (Adoption)
Learning Assistance Program
Procedure 2190 (Revision)
Highly Capable Program

Following discussion that was centered primarily on the proposed revision to Procedure 2190,
President Cannon confirmed all five policies/procedures can be brought forward for second
reading action via Consent Agenda on November 25, 2024.
VI.
Superintendent Update
Superintendent Hanson updated the board on the following topics:
Outdoor School – Ned Wendle, Director of Facilities & Planning, is exploring other location
options for the district’s Outdoor School. The district currently rents the Camp Dart-Lo facility
on the Little Spokane River. There is the potential that new Spokane Regional Health District
requirements may necessitate upgrades to Camp Dart-Lo in order for the Outdoor School to
remain on the site. Knowing upgrades at Dart-Lo are probable, and from a program sustainability
standpoint, the district is being proactive/prudent in looking to see if another location option
makes more sense long-term.
Security Bid – The security bid, that the board via resolution on October 21, 2024, authorized
to be reopened, has received multiple bids. Board approval of the security bid will be on the
December business meeting agenda.
Classroom Display/Décor Policy – Superintendent Hanson shared school administrators,
regarding input on an official classroom display/décor policy, for a variety of reasons, have
opted to defer to the school board when it comes to the subject matter to be included in such a
policy.
Following discussion, that included acknowledgement that a classroom display/décor policy
could generate a lot of “what if” conversations and may result in some pushback, Superintendent
Hanson noted he would forward to board members WSSDA’s sample policy on Staff Expression.
Reference was also made to a sample policy drafted by attorney Paul Clay and Director Killman
shared she would forward some sample policy language.
Other Topics – Superintendent Hanson provided an update on a recent Title IX investigation and
shared that feedback from a recent Inside the 354 staff communication was very positive. Folks
were particularly interested in the location of the recent future school site property purchase
made by the district. There was also discussion on the topic of how maintenance projects are
prioritized.
Director Killman referenced a recent Peach Jar notification she received regarding the CHAS
Clinic that is housed at Shiloh Hills. The flyer referenced access to the clinic being available to
“all” students. Discussion included notation that it was the board’s understanding that the clinic
would serve only children 12 years of age and younger. The board has concerns with children
13 years and older being seen at the clinic because of legal restrictions on information that can
be shared with parents. Superintendent Hanson will check into the matter.
The board briefly discussed a letter received by the district from OSPI regarding the Title IX
resolution adopted by the board on October 21, 2024.

VII.
Adjourn
The meeting was adjourned at 8:45 pm.

President

Secretary

