  Board Members Present:
Lucia Armenta – Chair
Juniper Rogneby – Vice Chair
Kaycie Alanis
Martha Woodard
  Superintendent:
Dr. Slade McSheehy
  NOTE: Statements in these minutes are not taken verbatim, but are reflective of the intent and/or content of the discussions. A recording of the meeting is available at www.youtube.com/@visdpublicmeetings6034
    Call to Order / Approval of Agenda
  Lucia Armenta called the meeting to order at 5:03 pm.
  Dr. Slade McSheehy recommended the agenda be amended to expand time for Q&A with prospective board members and remove the meet and greet section.
  Martha Woodard moved to approve the agenda as amended, Juniper Rogneby seconded.
  Voted, Approved, Passed, 4-0
  Executive Session
  Lucia Armenta adjourned the board meeting to an executive session at 5:04 pm RCW 42.30.110(i) To evaluate the qualifications of an applicant for public employment or to review the performance of a public employee. However, subject to RCW 42.30.140(4), discussion by a governing body of salaries, wages, and other conditions of employment to be generally applied within the agency shall occur in a meeting open to the public, and when a governing body elects to take final action hiring, setting the salary of an individual employee or class of employees, or discharging or disciplining an employee, that action shall be taken in a meeting open to the public.
  Board Meeting Reconvened
  Lucia Armenta reconvened the board meeting at 6:30 pm.
  Board Candidate Interview
  The Vashon Board of Directors and Student Board Representative Kora Murphy conducted interviews with board candidates Elizabeth Sheldon, John Osbourne, St. John Maloney, and River Branch.
  Executive Session
  Lucia Armenta recessed the meeting at 7:47 pm to adjourn to an executive session for the board of directors to review the qualifications of the candidates for the appointment to elective office.
  Board Meeting Reconvened
  Lucia Armenta reconvened the board meeting at 8:02 pm.
  The VISD Board of Directors announced their choice of River Branch as the appointment to the vacant board position.
  Lucia Armenta asked for a motion to approve. Martha Woodard moved to approve the motion, Juniper Rogneby seconded.
  Voted, Approved, Passed, 4-0
  Adjournment
Meeting adjourned at 8:05 pm