Board Members Present:
Lucia Armenta – Chair
Juniper Rogneby – Vice Chair
Kaycie Alanis (via conference call)
River Branch
Martha Woodard
  Superintendent:
Dr. Slade McSheehy
  NOTE: Statements in these minutes are not taken verbatim, but are reflective of the intent and/or content of the discussions. A recording of the meeting is available at www.youtube.com/@visdpublicmeetings6034
    Call to Order / Approval of Agenda
  Lucia Armenta called the meeting to order at 6:05 pm.
  Dr. Slade McSheehy recommended the board to amend the agenda with new budget documents reflecting revisions to FTE.
  Martha Woodard motioned to approve the agenda as amended, Juniper Rogneby seconded.
Voted, Approved, Passed, 5-0
  Land Acknowledgement
  Dr. Slade McSheehy conducted a land acknowledgement.
  Public Comment
  Amy Nielsen
Expressed gratitude to Vashon Schools Foundation for helping fill the counselor and nursing staff position. Shared story about the importance of the nursing staff at the school. Read letter about PSESD funding, alleged District has not claimed all available funds. Asked District to make funding nursing services fully a priority in future budgets.
  Sarah Merkel
Thanked board members for their work. Expressed that cutting direct services, specifically Tier II services, should be last on the list.
  Jenny Granum
Speaking on behalf of VEA, spoke against cutting/freezing salaries to balance the budget. Also, against reducing student services in any way.
  Amanda Curtis
Special Education Parent Advisory Council board member concerned about cutting Tier II support. Stated supporting students now is more cost effective than catching up and student-facing positions should not be the first on the list of budget cuts.
  Evelyn Rivas
Expressed concerns about staffing levels in regards to custodial department. Noted that work load does not decrease and work still needs to be done with fewer employees.

Diana Guerno
Spoke about disagreement over disciplinary situation with student at Chautauqua Elementary School. Thinks buildings are understaffed and does not think District should lay off positions for staff that help students catch up.
  Brandi Greenidge
Thanked community and anyone who spoke up and stood up for her position. Proud of her nursing team for their assistance and support. Thinks nursing services should be non-negotiable in budget discussions, the pinch looks different in the nursing world.
  Anna Shomsky
Concerned about proposed Tier II cuts and related her family’s experience with those services.
  Student Advisory Board Representative Remarks
  Kora Murphy
Noted it is testing week at high school and everyone is feeling it. Spring sports is concluding and heading into the postseason.
  Hazel Nielsen
Thanked everyone for hearing student voices and thanked community for donations to help restore positions. Holding second student form at high school on June 3 and 4 and extended invitation to Middle School so McMurray students can feel more comfortable about upcoming transition.
  Nora LaVigueur
Explained student forum will be for advocacy groups or clubs at school, with each rep having a presentation, also a survey for projects for next school year’s Student Advisory Board.
  Kora Murphy
Echoed Hazel’s thank you regarding student voices. Thanked students who spoke. Recognized the budget process is an unfair situation and thankful for board and community.
  Board Member Remarks
  Lucia Armenta
Thanked her family and board members’ families for their support. Thanked community for coming to meetings and speaking up. Thanked District employees present at meeting for their continued had work. Thanked Vashon Schools Foundation and everyone who supported their work.
  Juniper Rogneby
Comments, statements, and emails to board have been impactful. Thanked individuals who took time to outline concerns and thinking, highlighted Budget Advisory Board member who spoke to sports as an extension of Tier II services for some students, and had not considered it in that fashion. Appreciated someone taking time to change mind. Apologized for suggesting that teachers should take a pay cut. Cannot promise that budget issue will be solved in an elegant way. Encouraged community to continue to reach out and express their thoughts and feelings.
  Martha Woodard
Expressed concern that it is not just Tier II services, nursing, or custodial, but as class sizes increase and there are less electives, District’s academic legacy is at risk. Does not want to see this process again next school year to the extent it is happening this year. Part of issue is systemic to the way the state funds education. Expressed hope for finding creative solutions.
  River Branch
Acknowledged budget process is painful and wished to specifically highlight it is difficult for individuals to see their names on proposed Reduction in Force lists. Spoke to Tier II supports, stated reading and math are core foundational skills. Would like to see data, in particular for elementary school, about improvements in Tier II. Wants to take a look at the potential for cuts in the central office. Spoke about finding possible revenue generation in the future.
  Kaycie Alanis
Feedback on audio from call makes it difficult to talk. No remarks.
  Decision
  VISD 2024-25 Budget Reduction Plan
Dr. McSheehy began report with non-budgetary items.
Acknowledged Staff Appreciation Week, with thanks to Vashon PTO for helping celebrate.
Highlighted Vashon High School landing in the top 10 of the Us News World Report top high schools in the state
  Provided update to budget documents exhibits A, B, and D. Announced Vashon Schools Foundation has raised a $15,000 more of $40,000 goal, which would immediately be applied to restoring proposed cuts to nursing staff and McMurray counselor.
  Dr. McSheehy invited Chautauqua Elementary School Principal Julie Kangas to provide an explanation of Tier II services to the board.
  Board members engaged in a Q&A with Julie Kangas and Dr. Spencer regarding Tier II services at the District.
  Dr. McSheehy updated board on the budget timeline.
Estimated F-195 available by May 22 for review draft by PSESD
Initial budget hearing on June 13
Second read/budget adoption on June 27
  Dr. McSheehy walked board through the revisions of Exhibit A, B, and D. Dr. McSheehy noted that Exhibit D had been revised to reflect restorations. Option 2 restores Tier II services to what they were at the beginning of the 2023-24 school year--0.1 reduction instead of 0.6. Counselor contract is 1.0 FTE with a 0.2 leave.
  Board members engaged in Q&A with Dr. McSheehy about budget documents, topics of discussion included:
FTE impacts in terms of student loan forgiveness
Potential cuts to the central office
Impacts of staffing on universal design for learning
Revenue generation, such as interfund loans
Feedback on proposed cuts from Budget Advisory Board
  Martha Woodard noted that if the board does not take action on the proposed reduction in force options by May 15, by law, the District can only RIF classified staff. Emphasized that the board needs to take action.
  Dr. McSheehy recommended Option 1 as it leaves District with no delta and allows greatest flexibility in backfilling positions.
  Martha Woodard suggested since board was planning to hold special meeting for purposes of executive session on Tuesday, May 14, that board hold an additional special meeting.
  Martha Woodard made a motion to hold a board meeting on May 14, River Branch seconded.
Voted, approved, passed, 5-0
  Public Comment
  Amanda (unknown last name)
Spoke against cuts to any Tier II services and said people will choose not to send their students to the District.
  Mecky Chappelka
Read letter asking why District has not used OSPI Multiyear tool in budget process. Stressed pay cuts are not route to balanced budget or cutting services to students.
  Jenny Granum
Commented about need for increased counseling at McMurray.
  Lisa Miller
Cautioned board about importance of May 15 deadline. Stated VEA and VESP stand together but the board cannot miss the VEA deadline so that everyone else shoulders the load of budget cuts.
    Consent Agenda
  Personnel Recommendations
Classified
Hire: Elizabeth Fitterer, Leave Replacement, 3.25 hours per day Monday-Thursday, Paraeducator, Effective May 6, 2024 - June 18, 2024
Hire: Adrian Ramirez Gribo, Leave Replacement, 6.5 hours per day Monday-Friday, Paraeducator, Effective April 15, 2024
Certificated
Resignation: Don Eaton, 1.0 FTE, VHS Special Education Teacher, Effective End of 2023-24 School Year
Resignation: Lenka Becvar, 1.0 FTE, VHS MLL/Spanish Teacher, Effective End of 2023-24 School Year
  Juniper Rogneby moved to approve the Consent Agenda and Martha Woodard seconded the motion.
Voted, Approved, Passed 5-0
  Adjournment
Meeting adjourned at 9:43 pm