Blaine School District No. 503
  Regular Board Meeting
Tuesday, December 15, 2020
  Minutes
  1. Regular Board Meeting
A. Call to Order
Due to restrictions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic emergency, this meeting was conducted with remote director participation. Although this annual meeting did not include the typical luncheon and student entertainment, it did consist of the typical abbreviated agenda of past December meetings.

President Gibson called the meeting to order at 12:07 p.m.

Director Nunamaker had indicated in advance that he was unable to attend the meeting due to a personal commitment, and he was excused. Director Nunamaker did log in and join the meeting shortly before it adjourned, during the executive session. Director McKinney had indicated in advance that she would need to leave the meeting no later than 1pm for another commitment. All directors were in attendance for all or part of the meeting.
     Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson, Laura McKinney, Todd Nunamaker
  B. Pledge of Allegiance
President Gibson led in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  C. Board Comments on the Agenda
There were no comments on the agenda.
  2. Good News
A. Staff Appreciation
Superintendent Dr. Christopher Granger shared words of appreciation for the dedication and commitment of all certificated and classified staff members during this unprecedented and uncertain time. President Gibson concurred and voiced additional appreciation for all staff, including the superintendent. He further commented on the impact of the pandemic on a global level which will hopefully ease up with the vaccine. President Gibson commended the middle and high school's music program for putting on a wonderful holiday "radio show". Director Lotze seconded all of these comments and added that none of the directors would say the current situation is an ideal way to teach kids. But, she acknowledged the hard work that teachers and staff are putting in to do the best they can. Director McKinney stressed the importance of being kind and forgiving to one another, particularly at this time of year, and to remember that all are working towards the same goal of providing students with a quality education. She expressed assurance to parents that the district is making every effort to get students back into classrooms.
  Director Thomas was temporarily dropped from the virtual meeting between 12:10-12:14 p.m.
  3. Public Comment
A. Public Comment
President Gibson provided clarification regarding the format for public comments and explained that the board is glad to hear comments but would not respond or enter into a dialogue. It was further clarified that district policy does not have a provision to allow one member of the public to cede their 3-minute time allotment to another speaker during the public comment period.
  The following members of the audience addressed the board regarding their desire for secondary students to return to in-person learning:
Julie Johner had intended to share brief comments and then cede her remaining time allotment to Ryan Swinburson. Ms. Johner expressed a desire to know if district employees are prohibited from signing a petition or giving their personal opinion in which case there may be parents who cannot speak up for their children because of their employment with the district. She strongly encouraged the district to bring students back on campus and described the impact of isolation on her own children and those of her friends. Ms. Johner indicated that she would also provide written comments.
BHS Sophomore Emma Wydur read from a prepared statement regarding her loss of friendships as defined by Aristotle. Her creative description included definitions of friendships and explanations of how her friendships have deteriorated during remote learning. President Gibson assured Miss Wydur that the board has taken note of her comments and appreciates the effort she put into her statement.
Christie Aiello understands that COVID is a real thing but described her opinion that it hasn't been bad enough in Whatcom County to justify the detrimental impact on students and families. She provided a comparison with past mortality rates among elderly people who represent the majority of COVID deaths in Whatcom County and indicated that she believes COVID restrictions are an over-reaction. She believes the message has been that kids are not important, and she accused the district of covering up how bad students are performing by changing grades to pass/fail. She also expressed disappointment in the board's limitation on public comment periods and indicated it shows the directors are not really interested in hearing from the public. She asked that the district explore any option for getting students back to in-person learning.
Mylissa Bode prefaced her comments by describing her mood as "salty" and she indicated that she doesn't really believe her comments will make a difference. She believes that the district's agreement with teachers is the only reason students are not allowed to return to school. She made comparisons between public and private education and expressed concern regarding students being at risk for suicide due to isolation. Although education has previously given voice to the importance of protecting kids, she believes that education is now subpar and only responding to protect the district's employees.
Ryan Swinburnson had difficulty getting his audio to work, but Dr. Granger was able to troubleshoot the problem with him via telephone. Mr. Swinburnson asked who would be willing to champion this cause. He referenced parent comments which were previously forwarded to the board. Additionally, experts are saying that schools are failing. He described the situation as a 3-way staring contest. The district is waiting on the Health Department to allow students to return, and is only giving consideration to its contract with teachers. He referred to two recent suicides of freshman students in another school district. He further asked the board to demand an explanation from the Health Department regarding their recommendations that are protecting others but are not protecting students.
Steve Wydur had intended to cede his 3-minute time allotment to his wife, Christie Aiello. He described his daughters' struggles due to the lack of social interaction. He is tired of hearing that the Health Department doesn't think it's safe and that teachers are scared to go to work. He goes to work every day, as do others, and we cannot live in fear. He commented on Lynden Christian's experience being in school with no outbreaks and said there isn't anything special about Lynden. Our students in Blaine are suffering, and we can't keep stringing them along.
President Gibson thanked all the speakers for making the effort to share their comments with the board. He assured them that the board is trying to address this issue as best they can in order to get kids back in school.
  4. Reports
A. Superintendent's Report
Dr. Granger provided an update on current district activities.
The board is scheduled to meet at 5 p.m. on January 11, in executive session, for the superintendent's annual performance review. On January 25, the board will hold a work session at 5 p.m. for mid-year administrative reports, followed by the regular meeting at 7 p.m.
An alumni section is being created on the district's website to celebrate the achievements of former Blaine students. Dr. Granger gave an example of Class of 2015 graduate Gage Allen who recently made the "Forbes 30 Under 30" list for his work in the gaming industry. Suggestions were encouraged for other success stories about former Blaine students.
Dr. Granger described efforts to advocate for schools with the state legislature in support of funding stability which is being threatened by decreased enrollment during the current pandemic.The District is working to maintain conservative fiscal responsibility in anticipation of future financial impacts. Dr. Granger explained how this year's low enrollment could impact future funding for Transportation, Food Service, etc.. He asked for the director's help in communicating the need for stable funding to the state legislature.
In order to be ready for the return of all students as soon as the Health Department gives the go-ahead, staff in all buildings have been asked to begin working on site after Winter Break. Dr. Granger described the ongoing conversations that have been, and continue to be, happening with the Health Department to advocate for students. The long-term obstacle to bringing students back full-time is the 6-foot social distancing rule. Dr. Granger encouraged the directors to help advocate in this area with the State Health Department.
Dr. Granger reiterated his appreciation for the dedication and commitment of all staff. There hasn't been a single employee who has refused to come to work to teach students. Dr. Granger also expressed appreciation for Blaine families, and he acknowledged the added stress that has also been put on them during this pandemic. The district will continue to advocate for the return of all students.
Director McKinney asked about feedback from other district superintendents regarding their advocacy for students. Dr. Granger described the consensus among all Whatcom County superintendents regarding the desire for secondary students to return to in-person instruction. All superintendents have been working with the Health Department to find acceptable ways for students to be in their classrooms. Dr. Granger provided comparisons to other school districts in the state, indicating that most districts west of the mountains only have students up to 2nd grade receiving in-person instruction. 
  Discussion continued regarding school districts' reliance on local and state health authorities for clearance to bring students back to their classrooms.  President Gibson asked if local health jurisdictions in other parts of the state are more open to giving this clearance. Dr. Granger commended the Whatcom County Health Department for their collaborative work with local school districts and explained that they are also obliged to follow guidance from the state level. Although the official statements have used words like "recommendation" and "local choice", the legal interpretation of their meaning is that of a "mandate".
  There was additional discussion regarding the impact and necessity of the 6-foot rule. Dr. Granger has signed off on a joint letter to the governor asking for consideration of a 3-foot rule as recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics. Director McKinney referenced eastern Washington school districts where all students are back in buildings and discussion continued. Dr. Granger added that Blaine's successful approach to phasing students in over time is building confidence in the district's ability to return students to school safely. While everyone can agree to the importance of bringing students back to their classrooms, all are also in agreement that returning all grade levels to remote learning due to an outbreak would not be desirable. Dr. Granger commented that school boards and superintendents are focused on this issue every day and will continue this focus into the foreseeable future.

Director McKinney left the meeting at 1:00 p.m. due to another commitment.
  Other regular monthly reports were delayed until the January 2021 meeting.
  5. Consent Agenda
A. Approval of Minutes - November 23, 2020 Regular Board Meeting
The board approved the minutes of the November 23, 2020 Regular Board Meeting.
Motion by Dougal Thomas, second by Joan Lotze
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 3-0, 2 not present at vote
Yea: Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson
Not Present at Vote: Todd Nunamaker, Laura McKinney
  B. Approval of Minutes - November 24, 2020 Special Board Meeting
The board approved the minutes of the November 24, 2020 Special Board Meeting.
Motion by Dougal Thomas, second by Joan Lotze
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 3-0, 2 not present at vote
Yea: Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson
Not Present at Vote: Todd Nunamaker, Laura McKinney
  C. Personnel Matters
The board approved Personnel Matters as detailed on the Consent Agenda.
Motion by Dougal Thomas, second by Joan Lotze
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 3-0, 2 not present at vote
Yea: Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson
Not Present at Vote: Todd Nunamaker, Laura McKinney
  D. Health Reimbursement Arrangements (HRAS)
The board approved the agreement with the Voluntary Employees’ Benefit Association (VEBA)
Trust for Administrator and Non-Represented Groups.
Motion by Dougal Thomas, second by Joan Lotze
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 3-0, 2 not present at vote
Yea: Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson
Not Present at Vote: Todd Nunamaker, Laura McKinney
  E. Financial Matters
The board approved Financial Matters as detailed on the Consent Agenda.
Motion by Dougal Thomas, second by Joan Lotze
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 3-0, 2 not present at vote
Yea: Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson
Not Present at Vote: Todd Nunamaker, Laura McKinney
  F. Contracts & Agreements
The board approved the 2020-2021 Whatcom Literacy Council MOU.
Motion by Dougal Thomas, second by Joan Lotze
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 3-0, 2 not present at vote
Yea: Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson
Not Present at Vote: Todd Nunamaker, Laura McKinney
  G. Policy Manual Revisions - Second Reading and Adoption of Updates and Retirement of Policies
The board approved "Second Reading" and adoption of the following policy updates:
Policy 3114 Part Time Home Based or Off Campus Students
Policy 4000 Public Information Program
Policy 4020 Confidential Communications
Policy 4320 Cooperative Programs with Other Districts, Public Agencies, Private Schools, and Daycare Agencies
Policy 5404 Family Medical and Maternity Leave
Policy 6000 Program Planning Budget Preparation Adoption and Implementation
Policy 6800 Safety Operations and Maintenance of School Property
Policy 6810 Energy Management Education and Conservation
Policy 6920 Construction Design
Policy 6950 Contractor Assurances Surety Bonds Insurance and Change Orders
Concurrently, the board approved retirement of the policies listed below:
2023 Lesson Plans
2130/2130P Character Development
2133 Diversity-Multicultural Education
2180 Parent, Family and Community Partnerships
3121 Compulsory Attendance
4010 Staff Communications Responsibility (content moved to 4000)
4050 Endorsement of Educational Materials
4301 Improvement Districts and Licensing of Business
4330 Cooperation with Private and Parochial Schools and Day Care Agencies (content moved to 4320)
5402 Maternity Leave (content moved to 5404)
5405 Emergency Leave (content moved to 5403 in April 2015)
6010 Fiscal Year (content moved to 6000)
6119 Uncollected Non-Tax Revenue
6510/6510P Safety (content moved to 6800)
6921/6921P Educational Specifications (content moved to 6920)
6923 Energy Conservation (content moved to 6810)
6957 Change Orders (content moved to 6950)
Motion by Dougal Thomas, second by Joan Lotze
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 3-0, 2 not present at vote
Yea: Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson
Not Present at Vote: Todd Nunamaker, Laura McKinney
  6. Action Items
A. Reorganization of the Board: Election of Officers
Director Thomas asked about postponing the Reorganization of the Board until January because Directors McKinney and Nunamaker were not present. Dr. Granger took a moment to review Policy 1210 which mandates that the reorganization activity "shall" occur at the first regular meeting in December. President Gibson stated that he was reluctant to proceed with the reorganization activity when two directors were not present. But, he agreed to move forward in compliance with board policy.
  President Gibson called for nominations for president.
Director Lotze nominated Charles Gibson, citing the importance of continuity during this uncertain time.
The nomination was seconded by Director Thomas.
President Gibson asked each of the directors present if they wanted to make any additional nominations.
There were no further nominations and the president was elected by a roll call vote.
Directors Nunamaker and McKinney were not present at the vote.
Roll Call Vote: Directors Thomas, Lotze, and Gibson voted in favor of the nomination.

President Gibson then called for nominations for vice-president
Director Thomas nominated Laura McKinney, also citing the importance of continuity.
The nomination was seconded by Director Lotze.
President Gibson asked each of the directors present if they wanted to make any additional nominations.
There were no further nominations and the vice-president was elected by a roll call vote.
Directors Nunamaker and McKinney were not present at the vote.
Roll Call Vote: Directors Thomas, Lotze, and Gibson voted in favor of the nomination.
  7. Board Comments and Future Meeting(s)
A. General Comments
President Gibson expressed a desire to discuss, at a future meeting, how to proceed with reorganization of the board when there are directors absent from the meeting. It was suggested that clarification could be added to the board's policy.
  B. Future Meeting(s) and Agenda Suggestions
On Monday, January 11, 2021, the board will hold a Special Meeting in executive session starting at 5:00 p.m. for the purpose of discussing the performance of a public employee.

A mid-year School Improvement Plan Work Session is scheduled at 5:00 p.m. on Monday, January 25, 2021 followed by the Regular Board Meeting at 7:00 p.m.

Suggestions for agenda items include:
School Administrator Reports
Enrollment Update and Financial Report
Student Representation on School Board Discussion
Legislative Update
Superintendent's Report
Policy Updates
  8. Executive Session
A. Executive Session
At 1:14pm, it was announced that the board would move into executive session for the purpose of reviewing the performance of a public employee. The executive session was anticipated to last for up to one (1) hour. No action was anticipated following the executive session. Dr. Granger took several minutes to put all attendees on hold, and the executive session started at 1:20pm.

Director Nunamaker joined the meeting during the executive session at 1:43 p.m.
  9. Reconvene & Adjourn
A. Reconvene & Adjourn
At 1:46 p.m., the executive session ended and the meeting reconvened into regular session. There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned by a unanimous vote of those present.
  Motion by Dougal Thomas, second by Joan Lotze
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0, 1 not present at vote
Yea: Todd Nunamaker, Dougal Thomas, Joan Lotze, Charles E Gibson
Not Present at Vote: Laura McKinney
                                 ________________________________                            ________________________________
                                      BOARD PRESIDENT                                                               SECRETARY/CLERK