La Conner School Board of Directors
Minutes of Regular Board Meeting with Executive Session
Monday, September 23, 2024, 5:00 PM
District Office Board Room in person and via Zoom
  1. Opening Items: 
A. Call to Order – President Susie Deyo called the meeting to order at 5:07 pm. 
C. Flag Salute - Those present joined in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D. Roll Call - Board Directors Jeremy Wilbur, John Agen, Kim Pedroza, and President Susie Deyo were present. Board Director Alana Quintasket is in China. Student Representatives Kellie Cayou-Lockrem and Emmalin Goodman were present. Interim Superintendent, Director of Finance, Human Resources, Operations Dave Cram, Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier, and Executive Assistant Cherri Kahns were present.
E. Approval of Agenda – Director Agen moved, and Director Wilbur seconded to approve the agenda as presented. Motion carried 4-0.
  2. Consent Agenda:
Director Agen moved, and Director Wilbur seconded to approve the Consent Agenda as presented. Motion carried 4-0. Items on the Consent Agenda included (all of which are available on BoardDocs):
August 26, 2024, Regular Board Meeting Minutes 
September 9, 2024, Special Meeting Study Session
Warrants AP & Payroll and ACH Voids/Cancellations, totaling ($11,237.57) 091124JE VOID
Warrants AP & Payroll and ACH Warrant Numbers 434252 through 434283, totaling $96,687.10_091624JE
Invoices for $202,081.52_19_093024JE.pdf
Invoices for $162,196.05_092924JE 23-24
Personnel Actions September 23, 2024
2024-25 ILA SVC INVEST Amendment V IAA-1920-152 
  3. Public Comment:
A. Public Comment Guidelines - We welcome and appreciate hearing about personal or public interest issues from our citizens. The board requires those who wish to speak (but not all attendees) to sign in so that the board has a tally of individuals who wish to speak and can call them forward. When called forward, individuals will identify themselves and proceed to make comments, limited to 3 minutes per person, time may not be deferred during the public meeting and should be presented respectfully. The board is not obligated to respond to questions or challenges during the public comment period. The board’s silence will not signal agreement or endorsement of the speaker’s remarks. The board may control the time, place, and manner of public comment. The chair may terminate an individual's statement when the allotted time has passed and may interrupt a speaker to require the same standard of civility the board imposes on itself.
No public comment was given.
  4. Action Items:
A. Approve Cash Donation of $500 Gas Cards from Soroptimists - Interim Superintendent, Director of Finance, Human Resources, Operations Dave Cram explained that we give out gas cards for families that are McKinney-Vento, and are homeless, so it helps them. Last year, we had a grant that helped us obtain some of these gas cards. This is a very nice gesture that's instrumental.

Director Agen moved, and Director Wilbur seconded to accept the generous donation of $500 gas cards to help our students attend school from the La Conner Soroptimists. Motion carried 4-0.

President Deyo requested to let the directors know if we run out of gas cards and they would lobby our community to donate gas cards if needed.
B. Adopt 2024-2025 ILA Skagit Preschool and Resource Center (SPARC) - Interim Superintendent, Director of Finance, Human Resources, Operations Dave Cram explained that our district is required to provide education to all students within our district. We don’t have the resources available in-house so this ILA will allow students to attend SPARC.
Director Agen moved, and Director Wilbur seconded the adoption of the interlocal agreement with SPARC for the 2024-2025 school year. Motion carried 4-0.
C. Adopt the 2024-2025 CTE Four-Year Plan – Ryan Hiller presented a detailed five-year CTE Plan focused on leadership and work-based programs. We’re required to adopt a 4-year plan annually. Currently, we have Photography and Animal Science which has 30 students. Natural Resources, Business Math, and Culinary Arts has 20-25 students. Middle school students take Computer Science 7 and 8. We’re trying to get project management certified. LCSD has been approved for many more CTE classes but we don’t have everything that is needed for the program.
Director Pedroza asked if the district could bring back the automotive and shop classes. Principal Tripp responded if the finances and the right instructors present themselves, yes. We're not set up very well to do the auto shop. We would have to do some reconfiguring of either the bus garage or some other space to provide a certified shop to provide that CTE class.
Director Agen moved, and Director Wilbur seconded the adoption of the five-year CTE Program plan for the 2024-2025 school year as submitted. Motion carried 4-0.
D. Adopt Resolution No. 25-01 Policy 4040R - Public Access to District Records - Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded the adoption of Resolution No 25-01 Policy 4040R for public access to district records. Motion carried 4-0.
F. Approve La Conner Education Association (LEA) Teachers Union Contract with IPD – Interim Superintendent, Director of Finance, Human Resources, Operations Dave Cram stated our district team expressed satisfaction with the negotiation process for the teacher union contract, which includes a 3.7% salary increase for the current school year and potential adjustments based on inflation. In addition, some language was revised defining a few items to provide some clarity around a few issues.
LEA representatives were respectful during negotiations and respectful of our financial situation in moving through the bargaining process.
The board complimented both sides for completing negotiations and coming to a mutual agreement.
Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded the approval of the CBA with La Conner Education Association Teachers Union Contract with an IPD. Motion carried 4-0.

5. Discussion Items:
A. What About Math/Reading - Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier presented testing scores data at the beginning of the school year from 2022. it makes sense to compare the beginning of each year because at the end of the year, scores and standards increase. The analysis of student performance trends, reveals improvements in math skills across grade levels while addressing concerns about the accuracy of assessment scores. The data graphs are available in her monthly report in BoardDocs.
6. District Written Reports:
A. MS and HS ASB Update / Student Representative Monthly Reports – MS ASB report submitted a PPT that is available in BoardDocs. Student Representatives presented feedback on the new cell phone procedures.
B. 21st Century Learning Program – Ryan Patrick submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
C. Finance and Operations Monthly Report (Facilities, Transportation, Food Services) - Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram submitted a written financial report which is available in BoardDocs.
D. Community and Cultural Liaison Report – Clarissa Williams submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
E. Community/Parent Committees - No written report submitted.
F. Elementary Principal Report – Elementary Principal Heather Fakkema submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
G. Food Service Report – No written report submitted.
H. Secondary Principal Report – Secondary Principal/Athletic Director Christine Tripp submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
I. Superintendent Report – No written report submitted.
J. Teaching and Learning Report – Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
K. Technology Report – Director of Technology/ CTE Ryan Hiller submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
  Student Representatives Cell Phone Policy Update – Principal Tripp has received good positive feedback from staff. It's been a different environment in classrooms when you go to classrooms when you walk around school. It's been a different vibe. There's been a lot more student engagement. Just like anything else when newly implemented, we expect between 85% to 90% compliance. We have some individual issues to work through with students who are challenged by the policy.
  A middle school teacher was very excited and shared, “It was like teaching back in the 1990s before cell phones existed because students are engaging and interacting with each other in a way that she thought school would be”. “It's like how I envisioned teaching.”
  Another teacher shared that it’s been great, the kids are way more attentive.
  Students have been very compliant for the most part. Many MS students aren't even bringing their devices.
  Student Representatives believe that it's going well-ish. There are issues with some students lying saying they don't have their phones or putting a fake phone in the pouch.
  Some girls wear ear pods and get away with it because their hair covers the device.

If a student is caught with their phone, they’re supposed to take it to the office. We had a teacher tell a student who took out their phone, to take it to the office for the remainder of the day. The student headed towards the office but gave her phone to a friend. When she reported to the office, Ms. Jones asked for her phone. She denied having it. It would be nice to have consistency so everyone knows what to expect. Teachers should take the phone away from the student and give it to the office.
  A big issue for athletes when they are dismissed for games and only have 10 minutes to change and be ready to play it would be nice not to have to run back into the office to unlock their pouch and have a device located in the Braves Space.
It's become much more sociable at school. The classrooms have become louder since people are talking which is good and bad. Which is good for the social aspect and bad for the teachers who are trying to teach. It’s rare to see a laptop during lunch unless they're in the library.
  The student store has become quite the sociable spot. Students and staff have created an environment without phones.
When the teacher asks if anyone has questions, now students seem to always ask questions since they are no longer distracted by being on their phones. Students have become more engaged with asking questions and speaking up if they don't understand something. And they don't just go on their phones. However, there is a lot more note-passing happening in the classroom.
Principal Tripp explained that there are two types of fidelity checks. One we’re just checking that the pouch is locked. Then there's a compliance check where students are required to open their pouch. This week the focus will be on compliance checks.
  Both student representatives and 4 of the 5 board directors confirmed they will attend the WSSDA Conference in Spokane November 21-23. Director Wilbur needs to check his schedule before committing to attend.
  Conference registration including preconference has been completed and paid. Pre-conference workshops that start Thursday @ 9:00 am. Rooms have been reserved at the Davenport for Thursday and Friday nights.
  There was a discussion about whether to fly or drive. No direct flights are available out of Bellingham or Everett. The only option would be to fly RT from SeaTac and they have limited flights available on Thursday and Saturday. No hotel rooms were available Wednesday night at the Davenport or with the discounted rate. Director Agen volunteered to be one of the drivers.
  7. Executive Session:
A. Executive Session - The school board will adjourn to the executive session for 60 minutes. The purpose of the executive session is re: performance of a public employee per RCW 42.30.110(1)(g).  The board of directors adjourned to an executive session in the district office classroom to evaluate the performance of a public employee, the superintendent at 5:47 pm for 60 minutes.
The board reconvened for the regular meeting at 6:44 pm. No action was taken.
  8. Closing Items:
A. Board Member Reports – President Deyo shared La Conner School District is on the cover of the current edition of the WSSDA magazine. The article shares the challenges and changes the district has made to allow our students to improve math scores in the last two years.
  B. Future Meetings Listed Below:
October 7, 2024 - Special Meeting Study Session - Meet with secondary students to strengthen student voice. Meet with staff at 2:40 pm.
October 28, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
November 18, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
December 16, 2024 - Study Session or Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
January 13, 2025 - Study Session 
January 27, 2025 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
February 10, 2025 - Study Session 
February 24, 2025 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
March 10, 2025 - Special Meeting Study Session - Meet with secondary students to strengthen student voice
March 24, 2025 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
April 14, 2025 - Study Session 
April 28, 2025 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
May 12, 2025 - Study Session 
May 19, 2025 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
June 9, 2025 - Study Session 
June 23, 2025 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
  C. Adjourn: Director Agen moved to adjourn the meeting at 6:47 p.m.
      ____________________________     ______________________________
Susie Deyo, President                        Dave Cram, Interim Superintendent