La Conner School Board of Directors
Minutes of Regular Board Meeting
Monday, April 22, 2024, 5:00 PM
District Office Board Room in person and via Zoom
  1. Opening Items: 
A. Call to Order – President Susie Deyo called the meeting to order at 5:00 pm. 
C. Flag Salute - Those present joined in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D. Roll Call - Board Directors John Agen, Kim Pedroza, and President Susie Deyo were present. Board Director Alana Quintasket was present at 5:23 pm. Board Director Jeremy Wilbur was absent. Student Representatives Taylor-Rae Cayou and Josi Straatof were absent. Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, Operations Dave Cram, Executive Assistant Cherri Kahns, and Superintendent Will Nelson were present.
E. Approval of Agenda – Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to approve the agenda as presented. Motion carried 3-0.
  2. Consent Agenda:
Director Agen moved, and Director Wilbur seconded to approve the Consent Agenda as presented. Motion carried 3-0. Items on the Consent Agenda included (all of which are available on BoardDocs):
Minutes March 25, 2024 Regular Board meeting
Minutes April 8, 2024, Special Meeting Study Session
Warrants AP & Payroll and ACH Warrant Numbers 433663 through 433696, totaling $79,477.53
AP Invoices for $214,894._43024JE
  3. Public Comment:
A. Public Comment Guidelines - We welcome and appreciate hearing from citizens regarding personal or public interest issues. The board requires those who wish to speak (but not all attendees) to sign in so that the board has a tally of individuals who wish to speak and can call them forward. When called forward, individuals will identify themselves and proceed to make comments, limited to 3 minutes per person, time may not be deferred during the public meeting and should be presented respectfully. The board is not obligated to respond to questions or challenges made during the public comment period. The board’s silence will not signal agreement or endorsement of the speaker’s remarks. The board may control the time, place, and manner of public comment. The chair may terminate an individual's statement when the allotted time has passed and may interrupt a speaker to require the same standard of civility the board imposes on itself.
No public comment.
  4. Action Items:
A. Soroptimist Vintage La Conner $700 Cash Donation for Math Night – Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to approve the thoughtful $700 cash donation from the Soroptimist. The funds will allow families to purchase math books during math night on May 1. Motion carried 3-0.

Superintendent Will Nelson stated the district nominated the La Conner Soroptimists to receive the WASA Award for community leadership.
B. Adopt the 2023-2024 Highly Capable Annual Plan – Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier stated over 30 students from various grade levels are involved in the Hi-Cap program. President Deyo has heard many praises from parents for providing this opportunity and appreciates having higher-end classes that challenge their kids.
  Director Pedroza moved, and Director Agen seconded the adoption of the 2023-2024 Highly Capable annual plan. Motion carried 3-0.
  C. Approve Interlocal Agreement with Orcas Island School District for Assessments - Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to approve the Interlocal Agreement with Orcas Island School District to allow students to take assessments as presented. Motion carried 3-0.
D. Adopt Resolution No 24-05 Reduced 2024-25 Educational Program (RIF) –
Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram stated we need to reduce staff in the elementary with the declining enrollment. They have had discussions with the two individuals that have been imparted and they will receive the official letter on April 23rd.

President Deyo stated that it’s with a sad heart today that we have to RIF another teacher in our school district. We are hopeful the teachers affected will have an opportunity to return to La Conner schools. She thanked the administration for working on a plan to bring back our amazing energetic teachers.
Director Pedroza moved, and Director Agen seconded the adoption of Resolution No 24-05 Reduced 2024-25 Educational Program (RIF). Motion carried 3-0.
  E. Adopt Resolution No. 24-06 Waiver for Parent-Teacher Conference Days for the 2024-2025 SY – No action taken. Resolution No. 24-06 Waiver for Parent-Teacher Conference Days for the 2024-2025 SY is tabled to the next board meeting.
  F. Approve the FMX Software Sales Order – The FMS Software will only save the district $25 per year but the FMS is a much more powerful software program. FMS will replace the SchoolDude software program that the districts currently use to reserve facilities and is compatible with Arbiter so all of our athletics events will sync and reflect changes instantly for the public to see event details. FMX also allows us to purchase a transportation scheduling module in the future.
  Director Pedroza moved, and Director Agen seconded the approval of the FMX Software sales order bid for $5,625.00 from May 1, 2024-April 30, 2025. Motion carried 3-0.
  G. Adopt the 2024-26 District Calendar – The proposed calendar results from multiple meetings with union leadership, the admin team, and school board directors. It attempts to balance the desire for longer, uninterrupted blocks of instructional days, fewer half-days, and fewer waiver days, we've moved the all-day conferences to Thanksgiving week. 
  This calendar includes one "snow day" in February that we will use for a school day if there are any snow days before that time, and will be a day off if we haven't had any snow closures before that with the intention not to pivot to remote school for snow days the next two years.
  There will be some discussions with union leaders about the details of how this will happen, but in this calendar, Braves Day will be held on September 3rd and is not part of the 180 school days. We have discussed using seven hours of building-directed time on Braves’ Day to allow teachers and staff to be at Braves’ Day for parents and students as last year. This time exchange there will be fewer evening Building Directed hours throughout the school year.
  OSPI may grant certain school day waivers that would assist the school district in implementing a local plan to provide all students with an effective education system designed to enhance the educational program for each student. School districts may waive up to five school days per year to conduct parent-teacher conferences or for pre-planned activities such as professional development, student transition days, and conducting parent-teacher conferences for more than five days, in addition to unforeseen emergencies causing temporary school facility closures. The district is only asking for two waiver days. The state considers the waiver days instructional days.
  President Deyo and Director Agen thanked the staff for working hard on the calendar and appreciated providing more instructional hours for our students. President Deyo would prefer to completely remove all waiver days in the future.
  Director Quintasket stated that Swinomish isn’t having Native American Day and requested that it be removed from the calendars.
  President Deyo stated, that although the board is adopting a two-year calendar tonight, the board would like the option to review next year’s calendar when the time comes. Also, the request was made to have June 17th be marked as an additional snow day.
  Director Pedroza moved, and Director Agen seconded to adopt the 2024-26 District Calendar while removing the Native American Day listed on both calendars and extending the school year by one day as an optional snow day. Motion carried 4-0.
  5. Discussion Items
A. What About Math/Reading? - Beth Clothier, Director of Teaching and Learning introduced math teachers Dan Hansen and Julia Johnson who were present on Zoom. They each presented a PPT available in BoardDocs providing an update on the district's new math curriculum. They highlighted its positive impact on student learning, particularly in terms of enhanced content mastery, increased confidence, and the development of critical thinking skills.
Math teacher Dan Hansen emphasized the newfound appreciation among students for the practical applications of geometry in daily life, citing its relevance in fields like engineering and construction. He also mentioned the growing interest among La Conner students in logic and deductive reasoning, with calculus now being considered as part of their long-term educational journey.
Math teacher Julia Johnson shared insights from her algebra and business math classes, noting how students have started using "math talk" to collaborate and problem-solve together. She highlighted their improved confidence in math, evident in their ability to apply textbook concepts to real-world scenarios such as consumer finance, leasing vehicles, understanding compound interest, and payroll tax deductions.
Board member John Agen, who visited math classrooms alongside his colleagues, affirmed the positive changes observed in student engagement and interest during these visits. Johnson reiterated the students' enthusiasm for learning math skills that they can directly apply outside the classroom, noting their active participation and curiosity about real-world math applications.

B. Building Condition Assessment Facilities Study and Survey  - Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram requested this agenda item be moved to the next board agenda. No action was taken.
  C. Student Representative Topics – Student Representatives were not present. President Deyo would like a call for nominations to be distributed to the secondary students by Secondary Principal Tripp and Executive Kahns. President Deyo requested board directors to consider revising the Policy and Procedure to change allowing student representatives to serve a one-year term.
  D. Board Retreat in June – President Deyo announced the board is considering holding its annual board retreat on June 24. Details to follow.
  6. District Written Reports: President Deyo thanked everyone’s hard work who submitted an informative written report.
A. MS and HS ASB Update / Student Representative Monthly Reports – MS ASB submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
B. 21st Century Learning Program – Ryan Patrick submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
C. Finance and Operations Monthly Report (Facilities, Transportation, Food Services) - Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram submitted a written financial report which is available in BoardDocs.
D. Community and Cultural Liaison Report – Clarissa Williams submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
E. Community/Parent Committees - Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier submitted the minutes from the April NAPAC meeting which is available in BoardDocs.
F. Elementary Principal Report – Elementary Principal Heather Fakkema submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
G. Food Service Report – Kelly Kjarstad submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
H. Secondary Principal Report – Secondary Principal/Athletic Director Christine Tripp submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
I. Superintendent Report – No written report submitted.
J. Teaching and Learning Report - Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier submitted a written monthly report which is available in BoardDocs.
K. Technology Report –Ryan Hiller submitted a written financial report which is available in BoardDocs.
  7. Policy Review:
A. First Reading – No policies were read under the first reading.
B. Second Reading – President Deyo asked Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram to review the wording of Policy 5020 Collective Bargaining that the chief negotiator representing the district will be appointed by the board because the board hasn’t done this in the past.

Director Agen moved, and Director Quintasket seconded to approve the following policies as submitted with Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram to review the wording of Policy 5020 Collective Bargaining that the chief negotiator representing the district will be appointed by the board. Motion carried 4-0.
Policies / Procedures
Policy 4315 Release of Information Concerning Sexual and Kidnapping Offenders
Policy 4320 Cooperative Programs with Other Districts, Public Agencies, Private Schools and Daycare Agencies
Policy 4400 Election Activities
Policy 4500 Unmanned Aircraft System and Model Aircraft
Policy 5006 Certification Revocation
Policy 5011 Sexual Harassment of District Staff Prohibited
Policy 5020 Collective Bargaining
Policy 5021 Conflicts Between Policy and Bargaining Agreements
Policy 5201 Drug-Free Schools, Community, and Workplace
Policy 5202 Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration Mandated Drug and Alcohol Testing Program
Policy 5202 WSSDA Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration Mandated Drug and Alcohol Testing Program
8. Executive Session - The school board adjourned to executive session for 40 minutes @ 5:51 pm. The purpose of the executive session is re: employment of a public employee (Superintendent) per RCW 42.30.110(1)(g)(h).
  At 6:26 pm the school board extended the executive session to 6:45 pm.
At 6:43 pm the school board extended the executive session to 7:00 pm.
  The regular meeting reconvened at 7:00 pm.
  9. Closing Items:
A. Board Member Reports – President Deyo advised the school board will hold a public hearing in a special meeting study session with action items to be added to the agenda. The board rescheduled its regular board meeting to May 20th instead of May 27th due to the Memorial Day holiday. No meetings will be held on May 13th or May 27th.
B. Future Meetings Listed Below:
April 27, 2024 - WSSDA Regional meeting - Notice of Quorum April 27_2024 - Susie, John, and Kim are registered and paid to attend
May 6, 2024 @ noon - Special Meeting with Public Hearing and Action Title VI Grant Through the Office of Indian Education
May 13, 2024 - Special Meeting Study Session @ 1:00 pm
May 17, 2024 - 9 am-2 pm Agriculture Fair 
May 14, 2024 - Required WSSDA training Strengthening Tribal Consultation for School Directors, Swinomish Casino @ 8:30
May 21, 2024 - WSSDA New Director Network training (must pre-register) noon-1 pm via Zoom
May 28, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
June 5, 2024 - 8th Grade Promotion @ 6:30
June 6, 2024 - High School Graduation @ 5:00
June 10, 2024 - Special Meeting Study Session @ 1:00 pm
June 18, 2024 - WSSDA New Director Network training (must pre-register) noon-1 pm via Zoom
June 24, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
  C. Adjourn: Director Agen moved to adjourn the meeting at 7:02 p.m.
      ____________________________     ______________________________
Susie Deyo, President                         Will Makoyiisaaminaa Nelson, Ed.D., Superintendent
       