  La Conner School Board of Directors
Minutes of Special Study Meeting
Monday, February 12, 2024 @ 11:00 AM
District Office Board Room in person and via Zoom
  1. Opening Items:  
A. Call to Order – President Susie Deyo called the meeting to order at 11:00 am. President Deyo expressed gratitude towards Superintendent Will Nelson and Executive Assistant Cherri Kahns for successfully organizing a meeting with Skagit County Superintendents and Board Presidents in the district office board room on Thursday evening. The first impression was impressive, and the event was well-received, with good attendance from all districts, except the superintendent from Sedro Woolley School District who was absent.
B. Flag Salute - Those present joined in the Pledge of Allegiance.
C. Roll Call - Board Directors, John Agen, Kim Pedroza, and President Susie Deyo were present. Board Directors Jeremy Wilbur and Alana Quintasket were absent. Student Representatives Straathof and Cayou were absent because they were in class. Superintendent Will Nelson and Executive Assistant Cherri Kahns were present. Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram was present at 12:10 pm.
D. Approval of Agenda – Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to approve the agenda as presented. Motion carried 3-0.
E. At 11:10 am Board Directors will Adjourn to Complete a Site Visit in Middle and High Schools - President Deyo adjourns the meeting at 11:08 am for the directors, Connie Milliken, and Superintendent Nelson to visit math classrooms in the HS and MS, and observe lunch. Superintendent Nelson suggested reconfiguring the way classroom visits are scheduled in the future by splitting into two groups and then swapping. The schedule is listed in agenda item 2. A-C.
  2. Site Visit - Visit Math Classrooms in MS and HS:
A. High School - Visit Classrooms to Observe Mr. Hansen’s Geometry and Julia Johnson’s Business Math @ 11:15 am
B. Observe Lunch
C. Middle School - Visit McKnight's Classroom to Observe 8th Grade Math around 11:45.
  At 12:05 pm the study session reconvened in the District Office Board Room. The board discussed what they observed during the site visit and their concerns. The business math class was very small and everyone was very engaged. Beth Clothier explained that the class is small because we didn’t hire the teacher until late fall. Students don’t usually change their math path.
  3. Action Items:
A. Accounts Payable and Payroll – Director Pedroza questioned the formatting for the accounts payable. Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram will schedule a meeting with Director Pedroza to address any concerns she has. Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to approve accounts payable and payroll as submitted. Motion carried 3-0.
B. Personnel Actions – Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to approve personnel actions dated February 12, 2024. Motion carried 3-0.
C. Overnight Travel Request February 27- March 2 Innovative Schools Summit conference, New York. All travel expenses will be paid by NWESD Beth, Heather, Christine, Eric Crinklaw, and Lisa Hedlund –Board President Deyo asked why staff selected New York as opposed to other closer locations. The proposed trip will take a lot of administrators off campus, Who will here for the students? Mike Carrigan will cover the secondary buildings, Kate Boyce will cover elementary, and Superintendent Nelson will cover the state basketball tournament. The other dates of the conference presented a conflict with our team. New York is the host for the summit. The team of 30 people will visit six schools that model the same program. The trip is paid for by the grant. Beth Clothier will remain in New York between the two conferences and work remotely. Staff will provide a summary of their trip to the board at the next board meeting following their trip.
  Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to approve the overnight travel request for Beth Clothier Heather Fakkema, Christine Trip, Eric Crinklaw, and Lisa Hedlund to attend the Innovative Schools Summit conference in New York from February 27-March 2, 2024. Motion carried 3-0.
  D. Overnight Travel Request March 5-8, 2024 Beth Clothier and Suzann Keith - Paid from the MBL Grant - This entire trip will be paid from the MBL Grant. Staff will provide a summary of their trip. Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to approve the overnight travel request for Beth Clothier and Suzann Keith to travel to New York from March 5-8, 2024. Motion carried 3-0.
  4. Discussion Items:
A. Student-Focused Balanced Calendar 2024-25 and 2025-26 Alignment - The Mount Vernon School District has begun exploring the idea of a modified Student-Focused Balance Calendar. The efforts spanned multiple years but were essential to the process. MVSD collaborated with staff, students, and the community to identify options that align with their district's goals:
■ Short Term Goal:  To promote a more student, staff, and family life balance
■ Long Term Goal:  To address equitable outcomes due to Learning Loss
The PPT is available in BoardDocs and up-to-date information is available on MVSD’s homepage.
  B. WIAA Football – Athletic Director Christine Tripp presented a PPT that is available in BoardDocs. Christine held a public community meeting on Thursday, February 8 and another meeting is scheduled at 6:00 pm, February 20th in the Swinomish Gym to discuss the concerns regarding the football program at LCSD. WIAA denied the petition for LCSD to opt down to an 8-person football team. Due to the declining enrollment and small numbers participating in high school football, La Conner HS petitioned the WIAA to opt down to 8-man in football only. As a result, the athletic department is seeking input from the community about the possibilities for this sport moving forward providing information and an opportunity to provide input on this topic. This is not a decision-making meeting but an opportunity for concerned parties to provide input which will be considered in the final decision. What are our options moving forward: eliminate the football program; go to an 8-man season but won’t have any postseason opportunities; or combine with Anacortes? We need to decide by early-mid March.
  Director Agen agrees that it’s important to receive feedback and community input. President Deyo feels that Principal Tripp and Superintendent Nelson need to make a recommendation to the board, with the board making the final decision on the football program. The directors asked Christine to bring a recommendation to the board at the next board meeting, so a decision could be made by the end of February to allow for our AD to coordinate with schools for a football schedule. 
  C. School Improvement Plans – Secondary Principal Christine Tripp gave an update on the SIP that addressed the following information. The School Improvement Plan is available in BoardDocs.
  Secondary Principal Tripp was pleased to report there is a 6% increase in our graduation rates, attendance, and students with a sense of community/belonging. The graduation rate and MBL/UDL are all connected to teaching. Teachers have bought in and are working to improve instruction. We’re addressing some of the barriers to learning. Learning is a community activity so we’re working on improving attendance to improve instruction as we re-establish the norms for high academic achievement. We’ve created a focus group to start discussions between Swinomish staff and school representatives. We’re re-evaluating policies and procedures. A huge barrier is dealing with personal electronics. Data shows, that one teacher alone has documented 17 times, and another teacher documented 10 times they had to stop instruction to deal with cell phone use in the classroom.
  School Improvement Plans – Elementary Building Principal Heather Fakkema provided an update on the Elementary SIP. The detailed 2023-24 SIP and the PBIS behavior flowchart are available in BoardDocs. The focus was on Tier 1 with the systems, frameworks, and programs that  impact “every child, every setting, every day.” They focused on the school improvement efforts on addressing our Tier 1 practices in three primary areas: curriculum fidelity, school-wide expectations, and PLC practices with adjusted goals and new activities from 2022-2023.
  Elementary Building Principal Heather Fakkema has to complete a year-end report by June 30. In the future, SIPs will be presented to the board in June annually.
  D. Benchmark Assessments I-READY – Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier presented a PowerPoint on math and reading mid-year data dated Jan 2024 that is available in BoardDocs. President Deyo is pleased to see the math data shows that our 2nd, 3rd, and 5th graders are at 50% but what happened to our 4th graders? Beth Clothiers responded, unfortunately, our 3rd-grade teachers were absent a lot last year.
  President Deyo would like to see the district host another math night like last year. We need to celebrate and recognize our students more. Elementary Principal Fakkema responded that our math TOSA, Jan Auman put that event together and we don’t have the staff this year. Superintendent Nelson suggested having Ryan and Chloe with the Braves’ Hub host a math night event.
  5. Policy Review:
A. First Reading – The following policies will be added under the second reading for adoption at the February 26 regular board meeting.
Policy 1310 Policy Adoption, Manuals, and Administrative Procedures;
Policy 1320 Suspension of a Policy;
Policy 1330 Administration in the Absence of a Policy or Procedure;
Policy 1410 Executive or Closed Sessions;
Policy 1420 Proposed Agenda and Consent Agenda;
Policy 1450 Absence of a Board Member (Attendance);
Policy 1620 The Board-Superintendent Relationship;
Policy 1731 Board Member Expenses;
Policy 1732 Board Member Insurance;
Policy 1733 Board Member Compensation required by board directors on board payments;
Policy 1805 Open Government Training;
Policy 1810 Annual Governance Goals and Objectives;
Policy 6610 Video Surveillance
B. Second Reading - No policies under second reading. The board would like Policy 2205 SIP Plan added to the policies reviewed in March.
  6. Closing Items:
A. Announcements – No announcements.
B. Future Meetings Listed Below:
February 26, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
  March 11, 2024 - Special Meeting Study Session @ 1:00 pm
March 18, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
  April 8, 2024 - Special Meeting Study Session @ 1:00 pm
April 22, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
  May 13, 2024 - Special Meeting Study Session @ 1:00 pm
May 28, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
  June 10, 2024 - Special Meeting Study Session @ 1:00 pm
June 24, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
  C.  Adjourn: Director Pedroza moved to adjourn the meeting at 2:01 p.m.
      ____________________________     ____________________________________________________________­­­­­­­­­­­­­
Susie Deyo, President                         Will Makayiisaamihaa Nelson, Ed.D., Superintendent
 