La Conner School Board of Directors
Minutes of Annual School Board Retreat Special Meeting
Monday, June 24, 2024, from Noon - 5:00 pm
District Office Board Room in person and via Zoom
  1. Opening Items: 
A. Call to Order – President Susie Deyo called the meeting to order at 12:03 pm. 
B. Working Lunch @ Noon
C. Flag Salute - Those present joined in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D. Roll Call - Board Directors Jeremy Wilbur, John Agen, Kim Pedroza, and President Susie Deyo were present. Board Director Alana Quintasket was present at 12:20 pm. Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram, Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier, and Executive Assistant Cherri Kahns were present. Superintendent Will Nelson was absent.
E. Approval of Agenda – Director Agen moved, and Director Wilbur seconded to approve the agenda as presented. Motion carried 4-0.
  The board discussed scheduling a meeting on July 8 to address personnel issues, with the board aiming for a short, 15-minute session. The board also confirmed the meeting on July 29 as a public hearing.
  2. Discussion Items:
A. Strategic Plan Review - President Deyo gave those in attendance a few minutes to read our strategic plan, which is available in BoardDocs. She then opened it up for comments and questions. The directors and staff had a detailed discussion of the strategic plan objectives, highlighting the significance of student engagement and staff belief in student success. The board also discussed the operational data dashboard, emphasizing its alignment with the strategic plan and the debate over its public visibility.
  Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier reported that the state is revising standards in math, science, and English and in January, the state is supposed to provide us with the state's version of priority standards. So rather than having our teachers identify a set of priority standards, and then in January have the state say, no, no, these are the ones we want, we put this work on hold until we see what the state comes out with in January. The following year, it will be foreign language and arts and PE.
  There was a discussion to remove the date of June 2024 from the goal and a draft will be available by June 2025.
  The operational data dashboard is aligned with the strategic plan and available on our website. We have reportable elements like attendance, passing classes, graduation rates, and number of students by grade level in reading and math in third and sixth grade. Danielle Peterson is here through the school connections grant and they're building us a separate data dashboard that will provide additional data available to us.
  There was much discussion on the need to focus on increasing student enrollment and outreach efforts, suggesting various strategies, including cross-engagement with seventh and eighth graders, open houses, and creating a promotional video. The board also discussed setting goals for student enrollment, facilities, academic performance, and course offerings.
The following questions were asked and discussed:
How are we improving the engagement of students, families, and communities?
What are the best ways to improve communication with staff and students?
What is the plan for promoting job opportunities to tribal and minority communities?
How are we incentivizing and promoting education as a career pathway for students?
How can we improve responsible school district governance?
What strategies can we implement to set and communicate high expectations for student learning?
How can we actively engage the community with monthly events for school engagement?

Director Quintasket advocated for expanding family engagement beyond traditional school events, suggesting regular family potlucks and community engagement nights to foster relationships and address issues like bullying.
  Director Agen stated we need to improve community engagement and participation and would like to hold quarterly meetings in the auditorium to better inform our community about the happenings in our district.
  The board would like the leadership team to create and establish a fully operational emergency plan in advance of an issue. The question was brought up, asking if the district has the protocols and if our staff and subs are trained on how to deal with potential threats posed by an active shooter or natural disaster.
  President Deyo concluded that this strategic plan was made in 2020. We need to focus on more activities and family nights to encourage more community participation and engagement.
  B. Roles and Responsibilities – President Deyo asked those in attendance to review the School Board and Superintendent Responsibilities and opened it up for comments and questions. She reiterated that the School Board’s job is to review and approve the budget, and it is the Superintendent and his team’s job to formulate and recommend the budget. President Deyo reminded everyone that it is the School Board’s job to represent the public interests, and the Superintendent and his team’s job is to serve as the liaison between the staff and the board. The chain of command should be followed before issues are brought before the Board. The board of directors and staff reviewed the roles and responsibilities of the school board of directors and superintendent as a refresher and reminder to stay in the proper lane. The information is available in BoardDocs.
  C. Review Board Operating Principles – President Deyo gave those in attendance time to read through the La Conner School Board Operating Principles, which is available in BoardDocs. The board of directors and staff reviewed last year’s school board of directors operating principles. No changes were made. The board will adopt the same operating principles for the 2024-2025 school year at the July board meeting. The information is available in BoardDocs.
  D. Review WSSDA Self-Assessment Survey Results – President Deyo directed everyone’s attention to the Board Self-Assessment Survey results, which is available in BoardDocs. The board directors completed a quick review of the WSSDA board self-assessment survey results. President Deyo requested to get the Assessment Ranking Report from WSSDA for the directors to review. The report was provided to the board later during the retreat.
  E. Board and Superintendent Goals – The board of directors and staff reviewed the 2023-2024 school board goals and the draft 2024-2025 school board of directors and superintendents goals.
President Deyo proposed continuing quarterly engagement listening sessions with staff, emphasizing the positive impact of these sessions on staff morale and the importance of regular communication. The board also discussed potential goals, suggesting ideas such as addressing attendance, increasing extracurricular participation, and improving academic performance in math and reading.
  The goals and plans of our superintendent include targets for academic improvement and community engagement. The board engaged in a detailed discussion about measurement methods, ultimately agreeing to use I-Ready data and the options for the superintendent hiring process and timeline.
  After much discussion, recommended changes will be made to the documents. The documents will be revised, reviewed, and approved by the school board of directors at the next board meeting.
  F. Finance Update, Organizational Chart 2024-2025 SY - 2023-2024 Budget Discussion and projected 2024-2025 Budget – Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram presented a PPT, proposed 2024-2025 organization chart, the current status of and projected year end of the 2023-2024 budget and proposed draft 2024-2025 budget. A public hearing on the proposed 2024-2025 budget will be held on July 29 by the school board of directors. The PPT is available in BoardDocs.
  There was discussion around the educational programs and operations (EPO) levy, stressing the need to maintain a focus on incremental enrollment, facilities, and a 10% fund balance.
  G. Break @ 2:30 p.m. - The board of directors and staff took a 5-minute break at 2:35.
  H. CEE Data Toolkit – Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier presented the results from the March survey and the data compiled with a comparison over the last three years. The information is available in BoardDocs.
  President Deyo, board directors, and Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier led a comprehensive discussion on increasing survey participation to make data impactful and explored various strategies to improve outreach to parents and the community.
  Directors Wilbur and Quintasket will help encourage students and families to take the annual CEE Data Survey by explaining to families the purpose behind the survey. They will share the information on the Swinomish Facebook family page stressing the importance of taking it. They will share these school topics with the Swinomish Communications team so they can send them out through their communication platforms, text messages, and the community reader board.

I. Academic Progress, IReady Math and Reading Reports - Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier presented the data comparisons over the last two years regarding the IReady match and reading testing showing the academic progress. The information is available in BoardDocs.
  J. Elementary Update TK, K, Split Classes, SIP for 2024-2025 SY – Elementary Principal Heather Fakkema is attending a conference. Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier presented the PPT providing information on the T-K, Kindergarten, split classes, and the school improvement plan for the 2024-2025 school year. The PPT is available in BoardDocs.
  President Deyo would like the 10% changed to 10 points and asked how the data will be measurable as outlined in the 2024-2025 elementary school improvement plan.
  K. Secondary Update ALE, Master Schedule, Grad Rates, Extra Curricular, Athletics, Phones for 2024-2025 SY – Secondary Principal Trip presented a PPT providing an update on ALE, the master schedule, graduation rates, and extracurricular participation. The PPT is available in Boarddocs.
  At the high school, Beth and Christine are working to develop an Alternative Learning Experience (ALE) for our high school students. The goal, to begin with, will be to provide alternative pathways for students who are significantly credit deficient and need to replan to meet graduation requirements. We plan to create an onsite* MBL-based ALE program that students (primarily those who are juniors, seniors, and fifth-year seniors) can attend to accumulate credits. Our preliminary vision is that students will attend 3 hours each morning Mondays through Thursdays, and then have afternoons available to earn work-based or internship or additional online credits (or possibly attend general high school classes). The Re-plan is a project-based model, creating individualized learning plans to help get students on track for graduation.
  The board was pleased with the proposal and liked the potential for student internships and incentives, emphasizing the significance of education-focused work experiences.
  L. Food Service Discussion -  Director Agen stated he would like our district to work with Friday Harbor to see what we can do here to follow their food service program. The board was reminded that LCSD is CTE and has to follow strict state guidelines from OSPI.
  Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram suggested working with a person from Wenatchee who has worked with local schools to improve their food services program including the Anacortes School District.
  Director Pedroza will work with Food Services Director Kelly Kjarstad, OSPI, and Friday Harbor School District regarding the state guidelines and to see what can be done to provide food for our staff, and make more food available to our students, especially our athletes.
  M. WSSDA Fall Conference in Spokane - November 21-23 – President Deyo, Directors Agen, and Pedroza committed to attending the WSSDA conference in Spokane November 21-23. Director Pedroza contacted to confirm both incoming student representatives will attend the WSSDA conference. Board Director Alan Quintasket confirmed her attendance at the WSSDA conference and the Boot Camp preconference. Executive Kahns will register participants and reserve lodging. Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram, Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier will also plan to attend the conference.

Following registration, there is a $125 cancellation fee before October. Any cancellations after October will not be refunded. Board Directors will be responsible for paying for any cancellation fees and registration and hotel fees if they cancel after committing to attend.
  3. Closing Items:
A. Board Announcements No Announcements.
B. Future Meetings
July 8, 2024 - Study Session @ 5:00 pm
July 16, 2024 - WSSDA New Director Network training (must pre-register) noon-1 pm via Zoom
July 16, 2024 – Meet with the Swinomish Tribal Senate
July 29, 2024 - @ 7:00 pm Special Meeting Public Hearing Budget adopts F195 Budget for the 2024-2025 SY
August 9, 2024 - Study Session 
August 23, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
B. Adjourn: Director Wilbur moved to adjourn the meeting at 5:03 p.m.
    ____________________________     _______________________________________
Susie Deyo, President                        Dave Cram, Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, Operations
     