HOOD CANAL SCHOOL DISTRICT
REGULAR BOARD OF EDUCATION MEETING
Thursday, December 14, 2023
Meeting Minutes - DRAFT
1. Opening Items
Members Present: Edie Reclusado, Annie Robbins, Jimmy Harris, and Kimberly Miller.
Staff Present: Jeanie Beebe, Director of Finance and Operations; Susan Vining, Recording Secretary.
Call to Order: Ms. Reclusado, Board Chair, called the meeting to order at 5:16pm in the Hood Canal
School Library.
2. Revision and Approval of Agenda
Ms. Robbins made a motion to approve the agenda as presented. Mr. Harris seconded. All in favor,
motion carried unanimously.
3. Consent Agenda
Ms. Robbins made a motion to approve the consent agenda. Mr. Harris seconded. Motion carried.
4. Audience Comments
There were no audience comments.
5. Oath of Office
Ms. Reclusado administered the Oath of Office for:
Kimberly Miller (Director District #2)
Paul Thompson (Director District #3)
Jimmy Harris (Director District #4)
Annie Robbins (Director District #5)
6. Personnel Addendum
Ms. Robbins made a motion to accept the personnel addendum as presented. Mr. Harris seconded. All
were in favor.
7. Board of Education Report
Ms. Reclusado discussed the feasibility of working on a strategic plan with Kris McDuffy and Gene
Sharratt of Hazard, Young, Attea & Associates (HYA).
Mr. Harris made a motion to amend agenda by adding Action Item E. Engaging HYA for Strategic Plan.
Mr. Thompson seconded. Motion carried.
Additional discussion on the upcoming workshop with Mary Fertakis and proposed January bond
presentations.
Voting for Officers
Ms. Robbins nominated Ms. Reclusado for Board Chair. Mr. Harris seconded.
Ms. Miller - yea Mr. Thompson - yea Ms. Robbins - yea Mr. Harris - yea
Motion passed.
Ms. Miller nominated Ms. Robbins for Vice Chair. Mr. Harris seconded.
Ms. Miller - yea Mr. Thompson - yea Ms. Reclusado - yea Mr. Harris - yea
Motion passed.
Ms. Robbins nominated Ms. Miller and Mr. Harris as co-Legislative Representatives. Mr. Thompson
seconded.
Mr. Thompson - yea Ms. Reclusado - yea Ms. Robbins - yea
Motion passed.

8. Finance and Operations Report
Ms. Beebe discussed enrollment for the month of December. It was noted that the total enrollment on
the OSPI Summary does not include the Transition to Kindergarten students. The Board reviewed
student enrollment and they were provided with a detailed report of the district financials for all funds
through the month of November. The funds were in balance and the district continues to be in a
financially stable condition.
9. Action Item
A. Appointment of For/Against Committee Members
C. Resolution 05-2324 Title VII Impact Aid Grant Application
D. Indian Policy and Procedures
One community member requested to serve on the For Committee - Ms. Robbins.
After public notice, no persons came forward to serve on the Against Committee.
Mr. Harris made a motion to approve Annie Robbins as a For Committee member and to approve
items C and D. Ms. Miller seconded. All in favor, motion carried.
B. Overnight Field Trip | Nature Bridge | Feb 26th - 28th
Mr. Thompson made a motion to refer the field trip back to the superintendent for further clarification.
Mr. Harris seconded. Motion passed.
E. Engage HYA for Strategic Plan.
Ms. Robbins made a motion to engage HY for the school's strategic plan contingent on cost. Mr. Harris
seconded. Motion carried.
10. Future Dates
The future board meeting dates were discussed as stated on the agenda.
11. Executive Session
No executive session was held.
12. Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 8:20pm.

