Mercer Island School District
4160 86th Ave SE, Mercer Island, WA 98040
Board of Directors Regular Meeting (Thursday, September 26, 2024)
Generated by Michelle Mueller, Executive Assistant to the Superintendent, on Thursday, September 26, 2024.
    MEETING MINUTES
1. Opening Items (5:00 p.m.)
A. Call to Order (Google Meet Link)
President Lurie called the regular meeting to order at 5:00 p.m.
  Attendees:
  President Deborah Lurie
Vice President Dan Glowitz
Director Jody Lee
Director Cristina Martinez
Director Maggie Tai Tucker
Superintendent Fred Rundle
Student Board Representative Ava Zhang
Student Board Representative Lucy Dorer
Executive Director Erin Battersby
Executive Director Matt Sullivan
Director Andreeves Ronser
Director Tony Kuhn
Co-Director of HR, IMS Co-Principal Aaron Miller
Communications Coordinator Ian Henry
Owners Representative Brandy Fox
Director of Food Services Rachael Mathews
  B. Establishment of Agenda
MSC Glowitz/Lee to establish the agenda. Advisory Vote 2-0. Vote 5-0.
Motion passed.
  C. Superintendent Report
Superintendent Rundle reported attending a meeting of the Center for Collaborative Support (CCS), of which the Mercer Island school district is a member along with Issaquah School District, Riverside School District, Snoqualmie Valley School District and Tahoma School District. The nonprofit corporation was originally established, among other things, to accept donations and develop curriculum. The work of the group has changed over the years, and many have been questioning the purpose of the corporation, especially in light of the financial expense in continuing. At the CCS meeting, Superintendent Rundle presented a recommendation to dissolve, to which all directors voted in favor with the exception of one abstention. The group will continue to collaborate informally. Remaining funds will be allocated to member districts using a three-year FTE average.
  Superintendent Rundle reported further that the number of AP exams taken in 2024 is up 27%, with 64% of exams taken receiving a score of 4 or higher (an 8% jump from 2023) and 91% received a score of 3 or higher.
  2. Partial Governance Process Monitoring
A. Board Policy 1800 OE-11: Facilities and Capital Assets - Capital Projects and Long Range Facilities Plan Updates
Ms. Fox provided an update to the District's Long Range Facilities Plan with respect to capital projects, enrollment, and building capacity and utilization. She noted that a full report is attached to the agenda, including a three-year planning sheet outlining completed and anticipated projects and their associated costs. Ms. Fox will be presenting an abbreviated version which will cover the highlights of each category with reference to the presentation slides attached to the agenda.
  Ms. Fox offered background information on the District's preparation in 2023-2024 for a potential April 2025 bond as well as a timeline showing both historical and prospective dates. Some discussion occurred around when the Board will hear more on estimated project costs for the April bond and whether there will be a plan for subsequent bonds (i.e., bond stacking) to fund the projects, including future bond costs related to potential elementary projects. The Board has an interest in clarifying to the community the tax implications of all projects under consideration for future funding. Executive Director Sullivan requested that board directors provide their questions to Superintendent Rundle so that they may be relayed to Piper Sandler. In this way, Piper Sandler representatives can come prepared to discuss at the October 24 meeting.
    Ms. Fox reviewed projects completed over summer 2024 at the elementary schools, IMS, MIHS and Crest and proposed projects for summer 2025 with reference to the attachment to the agenda.  Some discussion occurred around electric vehicle planning and electrification of transportation lot. Superintendent Rundle noted that more information on this topic will be provided when the District presents the updated transportation plan to the Board.
  With respect to enrollment, Ms. Fox referenced the demographic studies by Les Kendrick and Davis Demographics, that the Board commissioned in 2023. She noted that the Districts enrollment projections are closely aligned with those in the Davis Demographics study but emphasized that the studies are only one factor in how the District determines its projected enrollment for the purposes of long-range facility planning. As shown in the presentation, the District reports slightly higher enrollment (up by 15) than the Davis Demographics projections. These figures include 40 new, nonresident students accepted through open enrollment. Some discussion occurred around how Running Start students are factored into the projections.
    Ms. Fox reviewed capacity and utilization figures as shown in the presentation. She noted that, at present, IMS has capacity of 1,296. If the proposed renovations are pursued, capacity will decrease to 1,000. She offered comments on how target utilization is determined. Some discussion occurred around the changes to IMS capacity, with Ms. Fox noting that the lower figure takes into account a utilization goal of 83% when considering current enrollment projections. A slide offering alternative capacity at the elementary schools was also discussed. Some discussion occurred around the boiler installation and whether that frees up staff time to pursue other projects or attend to other demands. Director Kuhn clarified that annual maintenance occurred on the old boilers and repairs were performed as needed but neither of these demanded much staff time.
  President Lurie encouraged directors to make note of other things they may wish to have monitored. The full monitoring of Board Policy 1800, OE-11 will occur on March 27, and any updates can be discussed during language review at the subsequent regular meeting.
No action was taken.
  B. Board Policy 1800 OE-9: Communication and Support to the Board - Superintendent’s Recommended Policy Revisions to Board Policy 3205: Sexual Harassment of Students Prohibited (1st rdg)
Executive Director Battersby presented updates to Board Policy 3205 designed to bring the District into compliance with the revised Title IX regulations. She offered some background information and highlighted that changes stem from updated definitions to the terms sex discrimination and hostile environment. Some discussion occurred around staff reporting requirements. President Lurie commented that if there is a desire to change the way policy is reviewed so that the Board can have more of an impact on policy language, a future discussion can be scheduled. In response to Director Tucker's question, Executive Director Battersby confirmed that changes to the policy on harassment of staff are forthcoming and noted that there may be new policy coming on pregnancy-based discrimination.
  President Lurie called brief recess at 6:02 p.m.
Lurie resumed the meeting at 6:05 p.m. with agenda items 4.A.
  Discussion on this agenda item resumed following recognition. Executive Director Battersby offered information on the process for mandatory reporting and noted that this information is covered during staff training prior to start of school and through online modules assigned to staff. Additional discussion occurred around a staff member's duty to report as well as potential liability to staff and the District for failure to report. Directors are seeking clarity in the policy on the process as well as on the definition of the term "report" as commonly used in this context. Director Battersby emphasized that the mechanics are ordinarily laid out in the procedure, which is forthcoming. She also clarified the broader use of the term harassment in the policy. A second reading of Board Policy 3205 will be included on the agenda for the next regular meaning.
  3. Full Governance Process Monitoring
A. Board Policy 1800 OE-5: Staff Evaluation and Instructional Practices (L-1; L-2 for item 2)
Director Miller offered the annual report monitoring Board Policy 1800, OE-5 on behalf of Executive Director Williams, who was unable to attend. He reviewed the evaluation changes stemming from the adoption of the revised 2022 Danielson Framework, with reference to the presentation slides attached to the agenda. Some discussion occurred around comprehensive versus focused evaluation cycles and around 360 evaluations, with Director Miller indicating that the District doesn't have a tool which systematically implements 360 evaluations. Superintendent Rundle indicated that he is not aware of any neighboring district that implements this across the board, although some districts, such as Bellevue, have a tool available that teachers/schools can opt to use. Further discussion occurred around the intent and use of such evaluations, especially when asking for feedback from students. Student Board Representative Dorer noted her appreciation of teachers who seek student feedback and indicated that it can be provided anonymously. 
  MSC Glowitz/Martinez to find the superintendent in compliance with OE-5: Staff Evaluation and Instructional Practices. Advisory Vote 2-0. Vote 5-0.
Motion passed.
  President Lurie suggested that this might be a good topic for SSA. Superintendent Rundle and Student Board Representatives Zhang and Dorer agreed to discuss this possibility at their next check in.
  4. Recognition & Public Input (6:00 p.m.)
A. Recognition: MIHS Track & Field; MIHS Boys Lacrosse; MIHS Unified Soccer Team; Telly Award Winners; Constitution Day and Citizenship Day; National Bullying Prevention Month; National Disability Employment Awareness Month; Disability History and Awareness Month; National Dyslexia Awareness Month; LGBT History Month; National Custodial Worker’s Recognition Day; Rosh Hashanah
This agenda item was heard after the Board returned from a brief recess during its discussion of agenda item 2.B. Coaches, assistant coaches and students from the MIHS Track and Field team, MIHS Unified Sports Team, and MIHS Boys Lacrosse team were present and recognized for their accomplishments during the spring 2024 championships, as noted on the agenda. Coaches offered comments on the successful seasons, and students had the opportunity to introduce themselves. Teacher Michael Ketchum and students Telly Award winners were also present. Mr. Ketchum offered some background information, and students introduced themselves and spoke briefly about their film projects, which are linked in the agenda.  Superintendent Rundle offered additional recognition for October as noted in the agenda.
  The Board resumed discussion of agenda item 2.B. following recognition.
  B. Public Input
No public input was heard.
  5. Consent Agenda
A. Approval of Consent Agenda
MSC Glowitz/Lee to approve the Consent Agenda as published. Advisory Vote 2-0. Vote 5-0.
Motion passed.
B. Warrants
C. Gifts
D. Personnel Report
E. Enrollment Report
E. Regular Meeting Minutes (09/11/2024)
  6. Items Removed from Consent Agenda
No items were removed from the consent agenda.
  7. Superintendent Announcements
A. Announcements
Superintendent Rundle acknowledged Director Lee's birthday. He then introduced Food Services Director Rachael Mathews. Executive Director Sullivan offered some background information on Ms. Mathews' transition to the District. Ms. Mathews offered comments on her prior work experience and expressed enthusiasm for her now role in the District. She also encouraged directors to offer feedback. Superintendent Rundle expressed appreciation to Steph Boyer, the District's Wellness Coordinator and Director of Pebble Preschool, for generously providing dinner to the Board and staff members.
  8. Board Announcements, Inquiries and Reports
A. Legislative Report
Director Lee reported attending the MIHS Curriculum night and complimented Student Board Representatives Zhang and Dorer for their role in directing families during transitions. She further reported attending the WSSDA General Assembly on September 20 and 21. She offered comments on the benefit of collaborating with other legislative representatives through the Eastside Directors' group, allowing for a united front at the assembly. She indicated that this was especially helpful when opposing a proposals that districts ramp back on DEI/equity initiatives. She relayed that the student representative bylaw proposal, which was supported by the Board, did not pass with the requisite two thirds majority. Director Martinez confirmed with the student board representatives that they have time and interest to be involved in the drafting of a new amendment going forward.
  B. Announcements; Inquiries; Reports
Student Board Representatives Zhang and Dorer reported hearing some concern among students that the homecoming dance is a week before the game, with spirit week following the dance. There were some additional complaints that no in-person ticket sales were available. Director Tucker reported that she and Vice President Glowitz met with Superintendent Rundle to discuss recruiting members for the naming policy committee. Solicitations will be forthcoming. She made further comments on the use of AI in the classrooms at the University of Washington. Both Director Martinez and Vice President Glowitz reported attending curriculum nights.
  8. Adjournment
A. Motion to Adjourn
MSC Glowitz/Lee to adjourn the regular meeting at 7:34 p.m. Advisory Vote 2-0. Vote 5-0.
Motion passed.