Mercer Island School District
4160 86th Ave SE, Mercer Island, WA 98040
Board of Directors Regular Meeting (Thursday, October 24, 2024)
Generated by Michelle Mueller, Executive Assistant to the Superintendent, on Thursday, October 24, 2024.
    MEETING MINUTES
1. Opening Items (3:00 p.m.)
A. Call to Order (Google Meet Link)
President Lurie called the regular meeting to order at 3:02 p.m. and noted that she will attempt to follow the agenda timeline as stringently as possible.
  Attendees:
  President Deborah Lurie
Vice President Dan Glowitz
Director Jody Lee
Director Cristina Martinez
Director Maggie Tai Tucker
Superintendent Fred Rundle
Student Board Representative Ava Zhang
Student Board Representative Lucy Dorer
Executive Director Erin Battersby
Executive Director Matt Sullivan
Executive Director Nova Williams (arrived at approximately 4:45 p.m.)
Co-Director of Human Resources & IMS Co Principal Aaron Miller
Director Tony Kuhn
Director Kay Adams (arrived at approximately 6:30 p.m.)
Director Andreeves Ronser
Assistant Director Jacquie Garcia-Fauver (arrived at approximately 7:40 p.m.)
Communications Coordinator Ian Henry
Owner's Representative Brandy Fox
Director of Food Services Rachael Mathews
  Additional meeting participants are noted in agenda items 2.A., 3.B., 3.C., 3.D., 3.F. and 4.A.
  B. Establishment of Agenda
MSC Glowitz/Lee to establish the agenda. Advisory Vote 2-0. Vote 4-0.
Motion passed.
  2. Partial Governance Process Monitoring
A. Board Policy 1800 OE-10: Instructional Program - IMS School Improvement Plan (SIP)
The Board heard a presentation from Co-Principals Miller and Mary Jo Budzius and Associate Principal Katie Gallager on the IMS SIP Reflection for 2023-2024 and SIP for 2024-2025 with reference to the attachments to the agenda. The 2023-2024 IMS SIP focused on the 4Bs: Belonging, Belief, Barriers and Broadcasting. Co-Principal Miller presented a reflection on the prior year SIP, highlighting efforts to foster a sense of belonging for staff, students and community members by prioritizing equity and inclusion as well as efforts to connect with families more effectively through enhanced communication with families around what is happening in classrooms, clubs and activities. He noted that social media initiatives are being developed to showcase student achievements and newsletters continue to keep families informed. Co-Principal Miller noted further that efforts to remove barriers included the introduction of iReady, work on grading practices and the introduction of instructional pathways, particularly for accelerated courses. IMS continues to focus on equitable practices to meet the diverse needs of all learners. Overall, while there have been many positive outcomes, the commitment to continued improvement is a central aspect of the 2024-2025 plan.
  Co-Principal Budzius and Associate Principal Gallagher introduced instructional coaches Kat Kuzak and Emily Mills, along with IMS science teacher Doug Davis. Ms. Budzius noted that the 2024-2025 SIP includes three goals. Multi-tiered systems of support are woven into each of these goals, as is the development of “expert learners” who are actively engaged in their own learning process. Associate Principal Gallagher introduced the first goal, which emphasizes enhancing reading skills. She discussed the use of iReady diagnostics to support these efforts as well as a focus on developing such skills across the entire curriculum. Co-Principal Budzius discussed Goal 2, which aims to ensure a challenging and inclusive education. She acknowledged differences in student and parent perception on whether the curriculum is challenging and seeks to  address a perceived communication gap between parents and students regarding curriculum difficulty. She spoke further about Goal 3 which focuses on cultivating academic behaviors and looking specifically at improving the transition from 8th to 9th grade. To this end, students will be self-reporting grades on assignments and will be encouraged to use a Student Engagement Continuum to self-assess mastery of lessons. Teachers can use this tool to discern the effectiveness of a lesson. Co-Principal Budzius shared a sample developed by IMS teacher Lauren Wisch.
  Discussion included the number of assessments and what is being assessed, how one year’s growth in a one-year timeframe is defined, student growth terminology, assessment tools, how goals are differentiated for students at different levels of learning, developing good academic habits to ease the 8th-9th grade transition, how the term “challenge” is viewed differently by different people, and how IMS and MIHS are working collaboratively to ease the transition from standards-based to traditional grading.
No action was taken.
  3. Long-Range Facility Planning Update/Discussion (3:30 p.m.)
A. Long-Range Facility Planning Update/Discussion (3:30 p.m.)
Ms. Fox reviewed the objectives of the meeting as stated in the attachment to the agenda and offered a brief history of long-range facility planning from 2022, 2023 and thus far in 2024.
No action was taken.
  B. Board Policy 1800 OE-11: Facilities and Capital Assets - Need for IMS Renovations (3:40 p.m.)
Co-Principal Budzius thanked members of the Steering Committee for their contributions to the planning process. Those present included teachers Doug Davis, Julie Biggs, and Kat Kuszak as well as parent Amanda Stoffer. Co-Principals Miller and Budzius discussed how the proposed renovations to IMS will offer improved safety and security, a unified building with improved flow between spaces, and more flexible, innovative learning spaces.
No action was taken.
  C. Board Policy 1800 OE-11: Facilities and Capital Assets - Project Costs & Escalation for IMS Renovations/ MIHS Improvements + Q&A (4:05 p.m.)
The Board heard a presentation from Ms. Fox on project costs for the proposed renovations and improvements at IMS and MIHS, respectively, with reference to the attachment to the agenda. Also present to answer questions were Ed Peters, CPM-Seattle; Mithun representatives Brendan Connolly, JoAnn Wilcox and Seamus Kelly; and Mahlum Architect representatives David Mount, Becky Hutchinson and Claudia Saunders. Ms. Fox offered several different cost models for construction at Islander Middle School, highlighting the process and the emphasis on keeping costs down without impacting programming. She noted how efficiencies of scale contributed to lower costs when compared to construction projects at Lake Washington. Ms. Fox discussed the use of different cost estimators for IMS and MIHS. Teams were brought together once estimates were finalized to make comparisons and look for alignment. Some discussion occurred around use of mass timber versus steel construction materials as well as climate control in classrooms. Board directors suggested that bullet points (pro and con) for the use of mass timber and enhancements to cooling capacity at IMS will aid to better understanding. Additionally, they requested the inclusion of the cost per dollar impact on taxpayers, e.g., $1.27 more per year for community members for these enhancements. This information will prove to community members that the due diligence was done and reveal why certain decisions were made.
  Ms. Fox discussed the need to meet regulatory requirements and improve comfort levels in MIHS classrooms (i.e., fire alarm system replacement, HVAC improvements/fans). She noted that the list of "must do" projects is too extensive to address with Cap Tech funds. Some discussion occurred around air quality. Ms. Fox further discussed improvements to the Administration Building, including the addition of an elevator as well as certain required regulatory improvements and storm water treatment at Admin and Crest Learning Center. Also included in a potential bond would be a study to conduct a deep dive into renovations versus replacement of the elementary schools and to assess whether construction can be done while students are on site.
  Ms. Fox noted that all costs are presented are reflected in 2024 dollars and presented with escalation at 5%, compounded annually, to the mid-point of the construction projects. Some discussion occurred at how escalation was applied to arrive at the projected bond cost of $159,854,388. President Lurie requested figures on replacing the turf at the South Mercer Playfields, which is anticipated to last around 7-8 years, as this will coincide with IMS and MIHS construction.
No action was taken.
  President Lurie called 5-minute break at 5:16 p.m.
President resumed the meeting at 5:22 p.m.
  D. Board Policy 1800 OE-11: Facilities and Capital Assets - Piper Sandler | Discussion on Bond Financing + Q&A (4:30 p.m.)
Ryan Swanson with Piper Sandler reviewed assumptions made when computing potential bond scenarios and offered prospective authorization amounts as noted in the presentation attached to the agenda. Figures include future increases to EP&O and Cap Tech levies. He indicated that borrowing would occur in increments as needed to keep costs down. Each borrowing cycle is 20 years, and every $10 million borrowed equates to an approximate increase of $0.02 to the taxpayer. The increase in the annual tax rate in 2026 is larger as this reflects the year bond funds would be collected. Two smaller bonds are being proposed, one in 2023 and one in 2026. A future bond is anticipated in 2030 for an additional $125,000,000 for elementary renovations/replacement. Some discussion occurred around bond passage in various districts and anticipated results for bonds in the upcoming election. Mr. Swanson indicated that bonds are more likely to pass if the Board can identify the needs and clarify those needs with the community. Some discussion occurred around ethical/green and mini bonds. Mr. Swanson suggested that there would be no economic benefit and would likely add to the bond cost. Decisions can be made at the time bonds are sold. Ms. Fox reiterated that the team is seeking board direction on whether to add on the Administration Building and Crest Learning Center projects and what size of bond is preferred.
No action was taken.
  E. Break (5:00 p.m.)
The Board recessed briefly and resumed at 6:07 p.m. with agenda item 5.B.
  F. Board Policy 1800 OE-11: Facilities and Capital Assets - Need for MIHS Improvements (5:05 p.m.)
The Board moved to this agenda item following agenda item 5.A. The Board heard a presentation from Principal Wold, and MIHS teachers Clay Laughary, Annalise Rockow and Rita Harvey advocating for the proposed project pairings to improve the learning environment at MIHS, with reference to the attachment to the agenda. MIHS project team members spoke about the collaborative process and the focus on student needs in determining the best project pairings. They emphasized that the projects brought to the Board are those which were considered the highest priority with a focus on designing functional learning spaces with high impact value. Some discussion occurred around the removal of proposed improvements to the science wing as well as more extensive improvements to the performing arts center. Ms. Harvey referenced the cost-prohibitive aspect to many of the desired improvements in the science wing and stressed that students needs can be met in the current classrooms. Ms. Rockow discussed needs within the fine arts areas and noted that addressing all of these needs had to be weighed against the competing needs in other areas. The decision was made to select the area that is most community facing, specifically the Performing Arts Center (PAC). She noted that the PAC is below industry standards and improvements will be designed to better showcase student talent. Student Representative Zhang, who served on the committee, stressed that projects addressing safety needs took precedence. Additional discussion occurred around program enhancements for Robotics and Radio Broadcasting and improvements to locker room space to better serve students.  
No action was taken.
  G. Board Policy 1800 OE-11: Facilities and Capital Assets - Next Steps (5:30 p.m.)
Ms. Fox restated that a decision from the Board on the bond amount, including the acceptance of enhancements at IMS, is requested. The Board agreed that more information on the use of mass timber and the benefits of the other proposed enhancements is needed. There was further interest in understanding what the benefit to education would be from pursuing these options as well as highlighting the environmental impact of such things as solar panels and the rain garden. Some discussion occurred around the inclusion of an elementary study as well as the projects at the Administration Building and Crest Learning Center. President Lurie stated that there is consensus that Board is open to a larger bond amount which includes enhancements and formally requested the additional information noted above in order to make a decision. Superintendent Rundle noted that this information would be presented at the next regular board meeting but will be provided to Board directors incrementally, as it becomes available.
No action was taken.
  4. Partial Governance Process Monitoring Continued (5:40 p.m.)
A. Board Policy 1800 OE-10: Instructional Program - MIHS School Improvement Plan (SIP)
The Board heard a presentation from Principal Nick Wold and Associate Principals Lisa Deen and Erica Hill on the MIHS SIP Reflection for 2023-2024 and SIP for 2024-2025 with reference to the attachments to the agenda. Principal Wold noted that the 2024-2025 SIP reflects a continuation of goals rather than a presentation of new goals, specifically the goal of developing relationships between students and staff, with a focus on impacted student populations. With respect to building authentic relationships, Associate Principal Deen reviewed data showing growth in all areas, although less in the special education student population. She further reviewed attendance data in slides 8-11 and noted, as shown in slide 12, that the percentage of students failing (F) a course or not receiving credit (NC) has improved between 2022-23 and 2023-24 while acknowledging that work still remains. Some discussion occurred. It was noted that this goal, to eliminate barriers to impacted groups, originated due to the disproportionate number of Hispanic/Latino and Black/African American students who received F/NC grades. Additional discussion occurred around identifying students in need of IEP services. Superintendent Rundle highlighted the fact that the District must identify any disproportionality when reporting annually to OSPI. At present, there is no disproportionality identified in the District.
  Discussion occurred around the use of restorative justice practices to address conflict and behavior, with administrators noting that this practices aligns with eliminating barriers and building relationships with students, especially with marginalized groups. Additional discussion occurred around the use of Reflection Time, which also aims to remove barriers and promote student belonging. This time serves as an alternative to traditional detention and will address student behavior while encouraging students to learn from the experience, understand the impact of their behavior and restore damaged relationships. Student Representative Dorer suggested that this time continues to be a deterrent to certain student behaviors, but, if received, provides students with an opportunity to grow through educational time. Principal Wold offered an example from a recent experience when communicating with a student. Director Martinez discussed The Dignity Index, which allows one to use AI to grade comments on a scale from 1 to 8 with 1 showing contempt or a lack of empathy and 8 showing dignity, respect and empathy. She noted that the desired score may depend on intent of the message one is communicating but that the tool can be used effectively to avoid making statements that might lead to conflict.
No action was taken.
  B. Board Policy 1800 OE-7: Financial Administration - Year-End Financial Report 2023-2024
Due to time constraints, this agenda item has been moved to the November 14 regular board meeting.
No action was taken.
  C. Board Policy 1800 OE-7: Financial Administration - 2024-2025 Financial Dashboard and September 2024 Budget Status Report
Due to time constraints, this agenda item has been moved to the November 14 regular board meeting.
No action was taken.
  D. Board Policy 1800 OE-9: Communication and Support to the Board - Proposed Policy Revisions to Board Policy 3205: Sexual Harassment of Students Prohibited (3rd rdg)
The Board expressed agreement with the language revisions provided by Vice President Glowitz, who noted that the language was pulled directly from statute.
MSC Glowitz/Martinez to approve the revisions to Board Policy 3205 as posted. Advisory Vote 2-0. Vote 5-0.
  The Board moved to agenda item 5.C.
  5. Public Input (6:00 p.m.)
A. Public Input
The Board heard public comment from the following:
Liz Grove, a student, advocated against repealing the Climate Commitment Act (CCA). 
Vihaan Tandon, a student, advocated against repeal of the CCA.
Quinn Harper, a student, discussed how the CCA impacts public school funding and advocated against a vote to repeal.
Robert O'Callaghan, a resident and parent, made comments on the lack of challenge in the Common Core Math program and expressed his dissatisfaction with the iReady program.
  There was a brief recess. The meeting resumed at 6:47 p.m. with agenda item 3.F.
      B. Recognition: PSESD Student Board Representative; National Merit Semifinalists; National Principals Month; Native American Heritage Month & Native American Heritage Day; Veterans Day
The Board heard this agenda item following agenda item 3.E. MIHS student James Young, the newly elected Student Board Representative to the PSESD was introduced and offered comments expressing his enthusiasm for the role.
National Merit semifinalists acknowledgement followed. Superintendent Rundle spoke to the students' accomplishments. and each student offered comments on their future plans. Principal Wold offered comments on student pursuits. The Board moved to agenda item 5.A. next.
  C. Superintendent Report
Superintendent Rundle had nothing to report.
  6. Consent Agenda
A. Approval of Consent Agenda
MSC Glowitz/Tucker to approve the Consent Agenda as published. Advisory Vote 2-0. Vote 5-0.
Motion passed.
B. Warrants
C. Gifts
D. Personnel Report
E. Enrollment Report
F. Regular Meeting Minutes (10/10/2024)
G. Special Meeting Minutes (10/11/2024)
H. Special Meeting Minutes (10/17/2024)
I. Post Monitoring Language Review - Board Policy 1800 OE-4: Staff Compensation
J. Post-Monitoring Language Review - Board Policy 1800 OE-2: Global Executive Constraint Monitoring
K. Post-Monitoring Language Review - Board Policy 1800 OE-12: Emergency Superintendent Succession Monitoring
L. Board Policies 1800 OE-7: Financial Administration and OE-8: Asset Protection - Resolution 735 to Dispose of Surplus Equipment, Materials, Relocatable Facilities, Textbooks and Other Books
M. Board Policy 5415: Educational Administration and Support Personnel - Salaries & Benefits (5415 P1) for 2024-2025 (1st rdg.)
N. Board Policy 1800 OE-11: Facilities and Capital Assets - Approval of Contract for Consultant Services
  7. Items Removed from Consent Agenda
No items were removed from the consent agenda.
  8. Superintendent Announcements
A. Announcements
Superintendent Rundle announced All Island Band Night tomorrow night and noted that the District is moving into performance season, with expected performances from choir and orchestra groups as well.
  9. Board Announcements, Inquiries and Reports
A. Legislative Report
Director Lee discussed a letter received by the Board from a student who requested that directors offer guidance to the community on the Climate Commitment Act (CCA). Superintendent Rundle indicated that, similar to City Council, the Board don't voice support or opposition to a ballot initiatives outside of offering facts around the impact of an initiative. With respect to the CCA, Superintendent Rundle is unable to quantify specifically how the District will benefit from the act. He noted, however, that the school does prioritize sustainability through it's Green Teams. Vice President Glowitz referenced suggested that the Board could draft a resolution supporting the CCA and noting some of the benefits to the District. President Lurie acknowledged that the Board passed Resolution 681 regarding sustainability in December 2019. She encouraged Vice President Glowitz to review the existing resolution and propose a revised resolution, if desired. Any proposed resolution would be considered after the upcoming election given the Board's meeting schedule. Director Lee noted that she and Director Martinez will be leading the upcoming legislative linkage.
  B. Announcements; Inquiries; Reports
Board directors reported attending District and affiliate meetings/events and shared highlights from meeting discussions. Vice President Glowitz expressed concern about the lack of access to Curriculum Associates testing materials. Superintendent Rundle indicated that he would attach materials from the sessions with Dr. Ray Smith and Curriculum Associates into the October 11 special meeting agenda. Some discussion occurred around the lack of access, with Superintendent Rundle pointing out that the reluctance from Curriculum Associates is not related to sharing curriculum/instructional materials but on offering access to assessments, which contain proprietary information. Directors expressed an interest in learning more about the curriculum and the benefit to students, and Superintendent Rundle noted that he could arrange for teachers and/or instructional coaches to present more information to the Board. Several directors expressed concern over demanding that a private company release diagnostic materials. Superintendent Rundle highlighted that the difference between instructional/curriculum-related materials and the diagnostic assessments, which are offered intermittently to students for literary and math in grades K-8 to assess student growth. Director Lee felt that it could be helpful to educate the community on the difference. Director Tucker emphasized the need to act as a Board when making requests and stressed that individual board members should not be acting independently or be involved in the operational aspects of the District.
  10. Adjournment
A. Motion to Adjourn
MSC Lee/Tucker to adjourn the regular meeting at 6:50 p.m. Advisory Vote 2-0. Vote 5-0.
Motion passed.
   