Mercer Island School District
4160 86th Ave SE, Mercer Island, WA 98040
Board of Directors Regular Meeting (Thursday, August 8, 2024)
Generated by Michelle Mueller, Executive Assistant to the Superintendent, on Thursday, August 8, 2024.
    MEETING MINUTES
1. Opening Items (5:00 p.m.)
A. Call to Order (Zoom Link)
President Lurie called the regular meeting to order at 5:00 p.m.
  Attendees:
  President Deborah Lurie
Vice President Dan Glowitz (arrived at 5:03 p.m.)
Director Jody Lee
Director Cristina Martinez (remotely)
Director Maggie Tai Tucker
Superintendent Fred Rundle
Student Board Representative Ava Zhang
Student Board Representative-Elect Lucy Dorer
Executive Director Erin Battersby
Director Tony Kuhn
  B. Establishment of Agenda
MSC Lee/Tucker to establish the agenda. Advisory Vote 1-0. Vote 4-0.
Motion passed. 
  C. Superintendent Report
Superintendent Rundle provided a few updates.
Back to School Resource page has launched and includes an FAQ.
Current enrollment figures for all grade bands is larger than the budgeted amounts.
A total of 40 nonresident students have enrolled in the District as have 63 nonresident students who are children of District staff members and 8 who are children of eligible City staff members. Additional enrollment updates will be provided at the August 29 meeting and at the end of September. Some discussion occurred around the number of families versus students, whether increased enrollment led to class additions and if expanding nonresident enrollment to the children of a larger number of qualifying staff led to an increase in staff member applications. Student Representative Zhang noted that the Superintendent Student Advisory is looking to schedule an event for new students. MIHS Counselors will also be hosting an open house for the new students. Representative Zhang suggested that it'd be helpful to compare our enrollment trends to those of neighboring districts. Superintendent Rundle noted this data should be available in October.
The MI Phone-Free Schools initiative was noted to be in the best interest of students. Superintendent Rundle thanked District staff and administrators who have worked diligently to ensure the implementation runs smoothly and that information has been communicated effectively. He shared the District's website, which is a helpful resource for community members - mercerislandschools.org/cellphone. Some discussion occurred around the distribution of pouches to students whose families may be opposed to the new policy, consequences for students who use a phone during school hours and some of the considerations for implementation. Superintendent Rundle noted that processes will be fine tuned as District administrators observe the implementation.
Superintendent Rundle stressed that the District supports its educators when discussing controversial issues.
  2. Partial Governance Process Monitoring
A. Board Policy 1008: Annual Agenda Planning - Annual Agenda Planning Calendar for 2024-2025 (1008 P, 1st rdg)
Board directors requested a running list of events represented on the 1008 P in larger font. Superintendent Rundle noted that beginning in September, events around the District will be included in the weekly board update and calendar invites will be sent.
Director Lee noted that she and Director Martinez have been meeting with the Eastside Directors Group to discuss amendment proposals being offered at the WSSDA General Assembly. The window to submit amendment proposals was August 1 through 6, and the Board might require scheduling some time before August 2025 to hold discussions prior to next year's window. Director Lee noted further that proposals of interest were already being submitted by neighboring districts, and the District can support these at the General Assembly. The Board agreed by consensus to move the September 12 meeting to September 11. The Board agreed to keep the Legislative Linkage on December 5, 2024, at 12:00 p.m. and confirm whether or not legislators are available to attend a mid-day meeting. The Board's planning calendar will be placed on the consent agenda for formal approval at the Board's next regular meeting.
No action was taken.
  B. Post-Monitoring Language Review - Board Policy 1800 OE-10: Instructional Program
The Board conducted its annual review of policy language for Board Policy 1800 OE-10. At the Board's meeting on June 20, 2024, directors agreed by consensus to shift Level 2 monitoring from items 5 and 7 to items 2 and 9. Superintendent Rundle offered recommended language to update monitoring items 2 and 9. His intent in the proposed language for item 2 was to reflect the goal of capturing programs and services in addition to curriculum. Revisions to the Board's interpretation were not included. Some discussion occurred. Superintendent Rundle proposed language for item 9 that considered the District's mission and value statements. Student Representative Zhang appreciated the reference to the whole child and not solely academics. Superintendent Rundle noted the sample language will be included on the agenda at the next regular meeting for formal action.
No action was taken.
  President Lurie moved to agenda item 3A.
  C. Board Policy 1003: Board Job Description - Board Discussion on Naming of District Facilities Policy
The Board heard this agenda item following agenda item 3B. President Lurie noted that over the years, the Board has received many requests to name facilities after staff members. During agenda planning between the board president and vice president, no consensus was reached to include such a policy as a board meeting agenda item. There have also been requests to establish a district naming policy, although a discussion on this topic has not been included on a board agenda. President Lurie noted that discussing a naming policy is the first step, while the second step is to vet this concept with the community. She noted further that the Board has been undertaking many other interests and juggling these interests includes prioritizing. Bandwidth is limited as board positions are volunteer based.
President Lurie opened up discussion to the full board, suggesting that discussion might include whether or not to pursue the topic and, if so, in what capacity (e.g., board committee, community-based committee or a superintendent/leadership team committee). Director Tucker indicated that a policy would be helpful and feels its the Board's job to develop policy. She suggested a committee of two to analyze existing policies in other districts and bring a proposal for full board review, indicating that she has availability in the fall to serve on such a committee. Director Martinez echoed the thoughts of Director Tucker and noted that, in her research, she found the Shelton School District policy/procedure to be very comprehensive and appreciated the option for recognition into the district's Hall of Fame. She also highlighted the policy at Franklin Pierce School District. Director Lee expressed two concerns, specifically 1) by singling out individuals for recognition, others are, by definition, excluded and 2) how are individual contributions weighed in order to make a selection. She worries that the loudest voices in the room may impact how decisions are made and may not reflect desire of community and reflected that someone celebrated in the past might not be someone the District would want to honor at the time of nomination. Vice President Glowitz spoke in favor of a naming policy, noting that he feels it would be of interest to community members and that many public school districts have such a policy to honor community members. He doesn't see much of a difference between naming facilities and selecting Pathfinder Award recipients. Vice President Glowitz expressed a willingness to join a committee of two with Director Tucker. Superintendent Rundle agreed that a naming policy would provide parameters and offer guidance on how to honor individuals and work would be required to design the application and decision making process. President Lurie expressed her belief that the current community would not be in favor of naming facilities since it is not inclusive and lauded the Pathfinder Award process for recognizing the contributions of alumni. She noted her opposition to a board committee of two and expressed an interest in a larger committee which includes former and current community members as well as students to best ascertain if naming district facilities is the desire of the community. She proposed delegating to responsibility to Superintendent Rundle to establish such a committee. Some discussion occurred around the cost of naming facilities and how District staff might work with a board committee to help administer surveys or schedule meetings with students. The Student Board Representatives felt that there are many ways to recognize individuals without naming a facility and expressed concern that a name without any context or history would not hold much significance with students. In response to Vice President Glowitz's inquiry, all directors indicated that they have heard opposition to such a policy from members of the community.
Superintendent Rundle indicated that he will bring a proposal to the Board showing what a District-led committee could look like inclusive of community members, students and two board members. President Lurie directed Superintendent Rundle to include this item on the next regular meeting agenda for further discussion.
Director Tucker acknowledged those who came out for public comment.
No action was taken.
  President Lurie called a brief recess at 6:57 p.m.
President Lurie resumed the meeting at 7:04 p.m.
  D. Board Policy 1003: Board Job Description - Board Discussion on Social Media Mass Action Lawsuit
The Board held previous discussions on the possibility of joining the social media mass action lawsuit at its meetings on June 22, 2023, and September 14, 2023. The Board revisited the issue after the Washington State Attorney General Bob Ferguson joined the suit. Executive Director Battersby provided an update relaying that the suit represents a multistate lawsuit against Meta, the parent company of social media platforms Facebook and Instagram, including many school districts across the country, of engaging in addictive social media practices that negatively impact the educational environment and result in deleterious impacts on students' mental health. Much of the burden of these impacts is borne by school districts in the form of, among others, mental health counseling and costly, destructive behavior by students. At present, there is a case at the state level in California and one at the federal level. Executive Director Battersby spoke with attorneys at Keller Rohrback, one of the firms handling the mass action suit, who indicated that claims in California from four school districts have been dismissed. Additionally, a negligent claim by a school district in Washington has also been dismissed but will be appealed. There is currently no action at the federal level. Superintendent Rundle sought direction from the Board to determine if there is a desire for more information from the lawyers, a preference to wait to see what happens at the state level in California or an interest in joining at the federal level only. Vice President Glowitz expressed concern about staff time and the possibility of upsetting community members if the Board pursues legal action. President Lurie advocated for learning more about the issue to make a responsible decision, while stressing that any board member who has a conflict of interest with the companies involved needs to make those clear and abstain from any discussion/decision. Executive Director Battersby added that, at present, the case in federal court is pending a motion to dismiss and reminded board members that initially Keller Rohrback indicated that involvement in the suit would not take up much staff time. Director Martinez expressed an interest in learning more as parents in the community are concerned about how addictive these social media platforms are for their children. President Lurie suggested several options 1) a board committee of two, with the addition of students, to learn more and present to the board, 2) ask Keller Rohrback address the full board, or 3) delegate to District staff to obtain additional information to present to the Board. Director Tucker preferred to hold off on further action until decisions are made at the California state and the federal levels. Some discussion occurred around the timeline/statute of limitations to join the suit with Executive Director Battersby noting that, should the Board desire, she will investigate if there is a substantial risk to preserving the claim if no action is taken. Directors expressed an interest in waiting if there is no risk of losing out. President Lurie directed Superintendent Rundle to provide information on the timeline/risk. He confirmed that, if urgent, an update will be provided to the full board. If not, an update will be provided to the president and vice president during agenda planning.
No action was taken.
  President Lurie moved to agenda item 4A.
  3. Recognition & Public Input (6:00 p.m.)
A. Recognition: Mercer Island Police Chief Chris Sutter
The Board welcomed new Mercer Island Police Chief Chris Sutter. Superintendent Rundle offered some background information, and Chief Sutter offered comments around the positive partnership between the police department and the District. He noted that they are actively seeking a replacement SRO and hope to have a new officer in place by the beginning of the school year.
  B. Public Input 
President Lurie noted that the Board will be strictly adhering to the 3-minute speaking time going forward to be equitable to everyone offering public comment. A written statement may be submitted to the Board to share any unfinished comments, either at the conclusion of public comment or via email.
The Board heard public input as follows:
David Milloy, a District alum, offered comments in support of honoring Coach Ed Pepple. 
Frank Schott, a District alum and current resident, offered comments in support of naming the high school's basketball court the Coach Ed Pepple Court. He provided samples of naming policies from Seattle, Bellevue, Issaquah, and Lake Washington school districts as well as the recently drafted policy from the City of Mercer Island. He offered to work with the Board in selecting committee members to serve on a committee as well as aid in drafting District policy.
Edward Katz, a District alum, offered comments in support of establishing a District naming policy to name facilities after community members.
Al Moscatel, a District alum, offered comments in support of naming the high school's basketball court the Coach Ed Pepple Court. 
Elliott Prasse-Freeman, a District alum, offered comments in support of naming the high school's basketball court the Coach Ed Pepple Court. 
  President Lurie moved to agenda item 2C.
  4. Consent Agenda
A. Approval of Consent Agenda
MSC Glowitz/Lee to approve the Consent Agenda as published. Advisory Vote 1-0. Vote 5-0.
Motion passed.
B. Warrants
C. Personnel Report
D. Regular Meeting Minutes (06/20/2024)
E. Out of Endorsement Report
F. Post-Monitoring Language Review - Board Policy 1800 OE-1: Student-Focused Fundamentals - Fundamental 1 - Personalized Learning
G. Board Policy 1800 OE-6: Budgeting/Financial Planning - City/District Interlocal Agreement - School Counselors 2024-2025
H. Board Policy 1800 OE-4: Staff Compensation - Proposed Revisions to Board Policy 5415 - Education Administration and Support Personnel Salary Schedules (5415 P1) for 2024-2025
  5. Items Removed from Consent Agenda
No items were removed from the consent agenda.
  6. Superintendent Announcements
A. Announcements
Superintendent Rundle announced that the Linden School District bond was failing, gaining only 47% percent of the vote when last checked.
  7. Board Announcements, Inquiries and Reports
A. Legislative Report
Director Lee reported having met with Director Martinez, Superintendent Rundle and the PTA Advocacy Committee representatives earlier in the summer. She and Director Martinez have been reviewing the General Assembly Handbook and have been meeting with other school board legislative representatives in the area to coordinate action. She reported that this team approach is working well. Director Lee reported further that some districts are removing language that references or discusses race or diversity, equity and inclusion. The intention is to eliminate WSSDA's role in advocating around these topics and push instead for parental choice in curriculum decisions. She did not advocate for board action on this matter at this time. Director Lee noted that the legislative representative group will meet again following release of the final Handbook on August 16, and she will provide an additional update at that time. Director Lee indicated that she will attend the General Assembly in person. President Lurie is considering attending. Superintendent Rundle referenced the fact that state apportionment for transportation funding has been decreasing while costs incurred by the District have been increasing. He will add contextual information to the Board Legislative Priorities Working Document, which was last discussed at the June 20, 2024, meeting.
  B. Announcements; Inquiries; Reports
Directors had nothing else to report.
  C. Announce Purpose of Executive Session: to conduct an executive session to discuss litigation or potential litigation pursuant to RCW 42.30.110(1)(i)
President Lurie announced the purpose of the executive session as stated in the agenda. She announced further that the Board would reconvene the regular meeting at 8:00 p.m.
  D. Recess into Executive Session
MSC Tucker/Glowitz to adjourn the meeting at 7:30 p.m. Advisory Vote 1-0. Vote 5-0.
Motion passed.
  8. Executive Session - Closed to the Public
A. Conduct Executive Session pursuant to RCW 42.30.110(1)(i)
  B. Adjourn Executive Session
MSC Tucker/Lee to adjourn the executive session at 8:06 p.m. Vote 4-0. (Director Martinez did not return to the regular meeting following executive session.)
Motion passed.
  9. Adjournment
A. Reconvene Regular Meeting
President Lurie reconvened the regular meeting at 8:07 p.m.
  B. Motion to Adjourn
MSC Glowitz/Tucker to adjourn the regular meeting at 8:08 p.m. Vote 4-0.
Motion passed.