HOOD CANAL SCHOOL DISTRICT
REGULAR BOARD OF EDUCATION MEETING
Thursday, October 24, 2024
Meeting Minutes - DRAFT
1. Opening Items
Members Present: Edie Reclusado, Annie Robbins, Kimberly Miller and Paul Thompson. Jimmy
Harris was absent and excused.
Staff Present: Lance Gibbon, Superintendent; Jeanie Beebe, Director of Finance and Operations;
Steven Torres; Principal; Susan Vining, Recording Secretary.
Call to Order: Edie Reclusado, Board Chair, called the meeting to order at 4:04pm in the Hood
Canal School Library.
2. Revision and Approval of Agenda
3. Consent Agenda
Vouchers audited and certified by the auditing officer as required by RCW 42.24.080, and those
expense reimbursement claims certified as required by RCW 42.24.090, have been recorded on a
listing, which have been made available to the board.
Ms. Robbins made a motion to approve both the agenda and consent agenda as submitted. Ms.
Miller seconded. All were in favor, motion passed.
4. Audience Comments
There were no audience comments.
5. Board of Education Report
Ms. Reclusado reminded the board of the upcoming WSSDA Annual Conference: Thursday,
November 21st to Saturday, November 23rd at the Spokane Convention Center.
Ms. Reclusado expressed her gratitude for the work Bassetti Architects has accomplished so far,
for their openness to feedback, making students, parents, staff and the community feel valued
and for their collaboration.
6. Finance and Operations Report
The board reviewed student enrollment and they were provided with a detailed report of the
district financials for all funds through the month of September. The funds were in balance and
the district continues to be in a financial stable condition.
7. Superintendent Report
Bassetti Architects presented options for school site and floor plans.
8. Action Item
Mr. Thompson requested a roll call vote for the action item
A. HCEA Collective Bargaining Agreement Ratification
Mr. Thompson made a motion to approve the action item by roll call vote. Ms. Miller seconded.
Ms. Robbins - yea
Ms. Miller - yea
The motion passed.

Mr. Thompson - yea

Ms. Reclusado - yea

9. Future Dates
The future board meeting dates were discussed as stated on the agenda.
10. Board Comments

Hama Hama Oysters will be hosting a Haunted Shell Pile event during the last weekend of October
and the first weekend of November. Donations on November 2nd/3rd will support Hood Canal
Education Foundation.
11. Adjournment
Mr. Thompson made a motion to adjourned the meeting. Ms. Robbins seconded. The meeting was
adjourned at 6:36pm.

