HOOD CANAL SCHOOL DISTRICT
REGULAR BOARD OF EDUCATION MEETING
Thursday, January 25, 2024
Meeting Minutes - DRAFT

1. Opening Items
Members Present: Edie Reclusado, Annie Robbins, Kimberly Miller and Paul Thompson. Jimmy Harris
was absent and excused.
Staff Present: Lance Gibbon, Superintendent; Jeanie Beebe, Director of Finance and Operations;
Steven Torres, Principal; Susan Vining, Recording Secretary.
Call to Order: Ms. Reclusado, Board Chair, called the meeting to order at 3:33pm in the Hood Canal
School Library.
2. Revision and Approval of Agenda
Ms. Robbins made a motion to approve the agenda with the addition of a short recess for a School
Board Appreciation presentation and refreshments. Mr. Thompson seconded. All in favor, motion
passed.
The board exited general session at 3:36pm and reconvened into general session at 3:56pm.
3. Consent Agenda
Vouchers audited an certified by the auditing officer as required by RCW 42.24.080, and those
expense reimbursement claims certified as required by RCW 42.24.090, have been recorded on a
listing, which have been made available to the Board.
Mr. Thompson made a motion to approve the consent agenda. Ms. Robbins seconded. Motion carried.
4. Audience Comments
One staff member spoke. No follow-up was requested.
5. Personnel Addendum
Mr. Thompson made a motion to approve the personnel addendum as presented. Ms. Robbins
seconded. All in favor, motion carried.
6. Board of Education Report
Ms. Reclusado shared a Letter to the Editor from this week's copy of Shelton Mason County Journal.
The school board discussed the strategic plan process and continuing the work with Mary Fertakis.
7. Finance and Operations Report
Ms. Beebe discussed enrollment for the month of January. The Board reviewed student enrollment
and they were provided with a detailed report of the district financials for all funds through the month
of December. The funds were in balance and the district continues to be in a financially stable
condition.
8. Superintendent Report
Mr. Gibbon updated the Board on the mailer sent out to residents in Hood Canal School District, on
the new video uploaded to the school's YouTube Channel, and on the recent Q&A additions to the
school website Bond FAQ web page. Mr. Gibbon discussed the upcoming events with bond
presentations.
9. Action Item
A. Overnight Field Trip | NatureBridge | Feb 26th - Feb 28th
Mr. Thompson made a motion to approve the overnight field trip to NatureBridge. Ms. Robbins
seconded. All were in favor, motion carried.

10. Future Dates
The future board meeting dates were discussed as stated on the agenda.
11. Board Comments
Ms. Robbins recognized Melanie Lankford for her work in creating a partnership with Timberland
Regional Library where Hood Canal students will be able to check out books from TRL and return
them from the school.
12. Adjournment
Mr. Thompson made a motion to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Robbins seconded. Motion carried. Meeting
was adjourned at 5:35pm.

