HOOD CANAL SCHOOL DISTRICT
REGULAR BOARD OF EDUCATION MEETING
Thursday, June 27, 2024
  Meeting Minutes
    1. Opening Items
Members Present: Edie Reclusado, Annie Robbins, Jimmy Harris, and Paul Thompson. Kimberly Miller was absent and excused.
  Staff Present: Lance Gibbon, Superintendent; Jeanie Beebe, Director of Finance and Operations; Steven Torres, Principal; and Susan Vining, Recording Secretary.
  Call to Order: Ms. Reclusado, Board Chair, called the meeting to order at 5:17pm in the Hood Canal School Library.
  2. Revision and Approval of Agenda
Ms. Robbins approved the agenda as present. Mr. Harris seconded. All in favor, motion passed.
  Mr. Harris amended the agenda, adding Action Item: B. Schetky School Bus. Ms Robbins seconded. All in favor, motion passed.
  3. Consent Agenda
Vouchers audited and certified by the auditing officer as required by RCW 42.24.080, and those expense reimbursement claims certified as required by RCW 42.24.090, have been recorded on a listing, which have been made available to the Board.
  Ms. Robbins made a motion to approve the consent agenda. Mr. Harris seconded. All in favor, motion passed.
  4. Audience Comments
There were no audience comments.
  5. Personnel Addendum
Mr. Thompson made a motion to approve the personnel addendum as presented. Ms. Robbins seconded. All in favor, motion passed.
  6. Board of Education Report
All Board members need to complete the self-assessment for the rescheduled Board Retreat.
  7. Finance and Operations Report
The Board reviewed student enrollment and they were provided with a detailed report of the district financials for all funds through the month of May. The funds were in balance and the district continues to be in a financially stable condition.
  8. Superintendent Report
ESD 113 Counselors will be on site to support the community
Installation of projectors
Work on gym floors will begin in one week
CSG Building Condition Assessment
  9. Action Item
A. Surplus Books
B. Schetky School Bus
  Mr. Thompson made a motion to approve the action items. Mr. Harris seconded. All in favor, motion passed.
  10. Future Dates
The future board meeting dates were discussed as presented on the agenda. The Board Retreat may be rescheduled for Thursday, July 25th.
  11. Board Comments
Ms. Robbins recognized Chris Hill for providing valuable feedback on new playground equipment.
  12. Adjournment
Mr. Thompson made a motion to adjourn. Mr. Harris seconded. The meeting was adjourned at 7:08pm.