HOOD CANAL SCHOOL DISTRICT
REGULAR BOARD OF EDUCATION MEETING
Thursday, February 22, 2024
Meeting Minutes - DRAFT
1. Opening Items
Members Present: Edie Reclusado, Annie Robbins, Jimmy Harris, Kimberly Miller and Paul
Thompson.
Staff Present: Lance Gibbon, Superintendent; Jeanie Beebe, Director of Finance and Operations;
Steven Torres, Principal; Susan Vining, Recording Secretary.
Call to Order: Edie Reclusado, Board Chair, called the meeting to order at 5:17pm in the Hood
Canal School Library.
2. Revision and Approval of Agenda
Ms. Robbins made a motion to approve the agenda as presented. Mr. Thompson seconded. All in
favor, motion carried.
3. Consent Agenda
Vouchers audited and certified by the auditing officer as required by RCW 42.24.080, and those
expense reimbursement claims certified as required by RCW 42.24.090, have been recorded on a
listing, which have been made available to the Board.
Ms. Robbins made a motion to approve the consent agenda. Mr. Thompson seconded. Motion
carried.
4. Audience Comments
There were no audience comments.
5. Personnel Addendum
Mr. Thompson made a motion to approve the personnel addendum. Ms. Robbins seconded. All
were in favor, motion carried.
6. Board of Education Report
Mr. Gibbon discussed the updated election results on the bond. The Citizens for the Support of
Hood Canal School committee will be invited to the March study session to discuss next steps.
7. Finance and Operations Report
Ms. Beebe discussed enrollment for the month of February. The Board reviewed student
enrollment and they were provided with a detailed report of the district financials for all funds
through the month of January. The funds were not in balance due to the Mason County Treasurer
not importing the register for the General Fund accounts payables. The district continues to be in
a financially stable condition.
8. Superintendent Report
Mr. Torres shared a presentation of recently hired staff at Hood Canal School.
9. Action Item
Ms. Robbins made a motion to retire policies 2004, 2090 and 5280 and to adopt policy 2190. Ms.
Miller seconded. Motion carried.
2004 - Performance Improvement Goals (Encouraged)
2090 - Program Evaluation (Encouraged)
5280 - Separation from Employment (Encouraged)
2190 - Highly Capable Programs (Essential)
10. Future Dates

Future Board meeting dates were discussed as stated on the agenda. The workshop on March 9th
is scheduled to begin at 10am but a location has yet to be determined.
11. Board Comments
Ms. Robbins discussed an upcoming Small Schools Advisory Committee meeting scheduled for
Saturday, March 16th and Ms. Robbins recognized Jeanie Beebe, Director of Finance and
Operations.
12. Executive Session
The Board exited General Session at 6:49pm and entered Executive Session at 7:00pm for one
hour to evaluate the superintendent.
The Board reconvened into General Session at 8:03pm. No action was taken.
13. Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 8:04pm.

