HOOD CANAL SCHOOL DISTRICT
REGULAR BOARD OF EDUCATION MEETING
Thursday, August 22, 2024
  Meeting Minutes
    1. Opening Items
Members Present: Edie Reclusado, Annie Robbins, Kimberly Miller, and Paul Thompson. Jimmy Harris was absent and excused.
  Staff Present: Lance Gibbon, Superintendent; Jeanie Beebe, Director of Finance and Operations; Steven Torres, Principal; Marcia Johnson, Secretary; Allie Neal, Special Education Teacher; Lisa Shell, 2nd Grade Teacher; Rachel Sullivan, 4th Grade Teacher; Tiana Warren, Kindergarten Teacher; and Susan Vining, Recording Secretary.
  Call to Order: Ms. Reclusado, Board Chair, called the meeting to order at 3:34pm in the Hood Canal School Library.
  2. Revision and Approval of Agenda
Mr. Thompson made a motion to approve the agenda as presented. Ms. Miller seconded. All were in favor, motion passed.
  3. New Staff Introduction
Ms. Reclusado introduced the Board Directors to the new staff, while Mr. Torres shared some background information and the new staff were extended a warm welcome to Hood Canal School.
  4. Consent Agenda
Vouchers audited and certified by the auditing officer as required by RCW 42.24.080, and those expense reimbursement claims certified as required by RCW 42.24.090, have been recorded on a listing, which have been made available to the Board.
  Ms. Robbins made a motion to approve the consent agenda. Mr. Thompson seconded. All were in favor, motion passed.
  5. Audience Comments
There were no audience comments.
  6. Personnel Addendum
Mr. Thompson made a motion to approve the consent agenda as presented. Ms. Robbins seconded. All were in favor, motion passed.
  7. Board of Education Report
Ms. Reclusado talked about visiting during new staff training and proposed a tentative date for the school board to host a breakfast for the staff.
  Ms. Robbins provided an update on the Facilities Committee meeting the previous evening and noted that the next meeting is scheduled for September 11th 7pm at the Hoodsport Timberland Library.
  8. Finance and Operations Report
The Board was provided with a detailed report of the district financials for all funds through the month of July. The funds were in balance and the district continues to be in a financially stable condition.
  9. Superintendent Report
Dr. Gibbon provided an update on the following:
Strategic Plan - will be meeting with Kris McDuffy
Facilities Committee Report - gym floor project is now complete, bleachers will be installed Sept 9th & 10th, vendor has been chosen to install new K-2 playground
Architectural Services Request - posted on website and advertised locally and in Seattle
Professional Development Schedule - reviewed the trainings offered
  10. Action Item
A. Policy 3246 (Essential) Restraint, Isolation, and Other Uses of Reasonable Force
B. Policy 3432 (Essential) Emergencies
C. Policy 6220 (Essential) Bid or Request for Proposal Requirements
  Ms. Robbins made a motion to approve Action Item 10A, 10B, and 10C. Ms. Miller seconded. All were in favor, motion passed. 
  11. Future Dates
The future board meeting dates were discussed as state on the agenda.
  12. Board Comments
Ms. Robbins expressed gratitude to the new staff members for attending to the Board meeting.
  13. Adjournment
Ms. Robbins made a motion to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Thompson seconded. Meeting was adjourned at 5:09pm.