HOOD CANAL SCHOOL DISTRICT
Board of Education Study Session
Thursday, February 8, 2024
  Meeting Minutes
    1. Opening Items
Members Present: Edie Reclusado, Annie Robbins, Jimmy Harris, Kimberly Miller, and Paul Thompson.
  Staff Present: Lance Gibbon, Superintendent; Steven Torres, Principal; Susan Vining, Recording Secretary.
  Call to Order: Ms. Reclusado, Board Chair, called the meeting to order at 5:17pm in the Hood Canal School Library.
  2. Revision and Approval of Agenda
Ms. Robbins approved the agenda with the addition of Board Comments. Mr. Thompson seconded. All in favor, motion carried.
  3. Study Session Topics
Mr. Torres discussed i-Ready diagnostic results which show student progress when comparing assessments from the start of the school year to those recently completed. Mr. Torres also presented on the regular attendance rate (no more than 2 absences per month) and the chronic absence rate (students missing 10% or more). Data for first semester shows the number of students attending regularly is increasing and the number of students with chronic absences is decreasing. Mr. Torres discussed the early release PD schedule and provided a copy of the agenda for the teacher site visit to James W. Lintott Elementary School in Chehalis. The Board received a copy of the original school improvement plan and the mid-year check for their review.
  4. Future Dates
The future board meeting dates were discussed as stated on the agenda. A workshop with Mary Fertakis was scheduled for March 9th from 10am to 2:30pm. The meeting place is to be determined.
  5. Board Comments
Ms. Robbins recognized the Citizens for the Support of Hood Canal School committee for their creative ideas and hard work.
  The Board exited General Session at 7:19pm.
  6. Executive Session
The Board entered into Executive Session at 7:30pm for 45 minutes to review the superintendent evaluation process. The Board continued in Executive Session for an additional 30 minutes and reconvened into General Session at 8:45pm. No action was taken.
  7. Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 8:46pm.
 