HOOD CANAL SCHOOL DISTRICT
REGULAR BOARD OF EDUCATION MEETING
Thursday, April 25, 2024
Meeting Minutes - DRAFT
1. Opening Items
Members Present: Edie Reclusado, Annie Robbins, Jimmy Harris and Paul Thompson. Kimberly
Miller was absent and excused.
Staff Present: Lance Gibbon, Superintendent; Steven Torres, Principal; Susan Vining, Recording
Secretary.
Call to Order: Ms. Reclusado, Board Chair, called the meeting to order at 5:16pm in the Hood
Canal School Library.
2. Revision and Approval of Agenda
Mr. Harris made a motion to approve the agenda. Ms. Robbins seconded. All in favor, motion
carried.
3. Consent Agenda
Vouchers audited and certified by the auditing officer as required by RCW 42.24.080, and those
expense reimbursement claims certified as required by RCW 42.24.090, have been recorded on a
listing, which have been made available to the Board.
Mr. Thompson made a motion to approve the consent agenda. Mr. Harris seconded. All were in
favor, motion carried.
4. Audience Comments
One community member had comments.
5. Personnel Addendum
There was no personnel addendum.
6. Board of Education Report
The board discussed Teacher Appreciation Week.
7. Finance and Operations Report
The Board reviewed student enrollment and they were provided with a detailed report of the
district financials for all funds through the month of March. The funds were in balance and the
district continues to be in a financially stable condition.
8. Superintendent Report
Mr. Gibbon updated the board on:
Earth Day Celebration at Potlatch State Park
Small Schools Modernization Grant application
9. Public Hearing
The board opened the floor at 6:18pm for public discussion on the Title VI Grant Plan for 202425. There were no comments. The floor was closed at 6:19pm.
10. Action Item
Mr. Harris made a motion to vote on Item A and Item B as a package. Mr. Thompson seconded.
All in favor, motion carried.
Ms. Robbins made a motion to approve Item 10A and Item 10B. Mr. Harris seconded. All in favor,
motion carried.
A. Mount St Helens Overnight Field Trip | Oct 16-18, 2024
B. Board Policies:
2124 - Physical Education and Health Class (NEW) (Encouraged)

6700 - Nutrition (Essential)
6701 - Recess and Physical Activity (NEW) (Essential)
6702 - Wellness (NEW) (Essential)
11. Future Dates
Future board meeting dates were discussed.
12. Board Comments
Ms. Robbins recognized the LEGOLAND display built by Lego Club students for Student Learning
Showcase Night.
Mr. Torres recognized Becky Purvis for her work with the Kiwanis on the upcoming Day of
Champions event. He also acknowledged the Hood Canal Kiwanis and the Hood Canal School FTO
for their generous support in providing students with a school spirit t-shirt.
13. Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 6:31pm.

