HOOD CANAL SCHOOL DISTRICT
Board of Education Study Session
Thursday, January 11, 2024
Meeting Minutes - DRAFT
1. Opening Items
Members Present: Edie Reclusado, Annie Robbins, Jimmy Harris and Paul Thompson. Kimberly Miller
was absent and excused.
Staff Present: Lance Gibbon, Superintendent; Steven Torres, Principal; Susan Vining, Recording
Secretary.
Call to Order: Ms. Reclusado, Board Chair, called the meeting to order at 5:15pm in the Hood Canal
School Library.
2. Revision and Approval of Agenda
Mr. Harris made a motion to allow open Q&A from the public at this session. Ms. Robbins seconded.
All were in favor, motion carried.
Ms. Robbins made a motion to add Board Comments to the end of agendas. Mr. Harris seconded.
Motion carried.
3. Study Session Topics
A. Review of District Information Campaign Efforts
Mr. Gibbon provided a draft copy of the mailer for the February bond, discussed the updates to the
district website, played the new short video to promote the bond and mentioned that a Title 1 Family
Night was scheduled for January 31st. Family Night will include a student book exchange and re-gift
Bingo.
B. Review of PDC Guidelines
The board was provided with a copy of the PDC Guidelines for School Districts.
C. Report on Efforts of Citizen's Group
Ms. Robbins provided background on the role citizen group and gave an update on recent efforts. The
group has meetings scheduled January 17th, January 24th and February 7th held at the Hoodsport
Timberland Library branch from 7pm to 9pm. There are additionally tentative dates scheduled for a
Meet & Greet at the Skokomish Community Center and Alderbrook Resort.
D. Discussion: Ways Board Members Can Engage the Community Regarding the Bond
There was discussion and suggestions on how to reach members of the community.
4. Future Dates
The future meeting dates were discussed as stated on the agenda.
5. Board Comments
Ms. Robbins recognized Mr. Torres for his efforts in rescuing staff member, Lois Wagner, from the
elevator during the power outage.
5. Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 6:41pm.

