HOOD CANAL SCHOOL DISTRICT
REGULAR BOARD OF EDUCATION MEETING
Thursday, May 23, 2024
Meeting Minutes - DRAFT
1. Opening Items
Members Present: Edie Reclusado, Annie Robbins, Jimmy Harris, Kimberly Miller and Paul
Thompson.
Staff Present: Lance Gibbon, Superintendent; Jeanie Beebe, Director of Finance and Operations;
Steven Torres, Principal; Susan Vining, Recording Secretary.
Call to Order: Ms. Reclusado, Board Chair, called the meeting to order at 5:16pm in the Hood
Canal School Library.
2. Revision and Approval of Agenda
Ms. Robbins made a motion to approve the agenda as presented. Mr. Thompson seconded. All
were in favor, motion passed.
3. Consent Agenda
Vouchers audited and certified by the auditing officer as required by RCW 42.24.080, and those
expense reimbursement claims certified as required by RCW 42.24.090, have been recorded on a
listing, which have been made available to the Board.
Ms. Robbins made a motion to approve the consent agenda. Ms. Miller seconded. All were in favor,
motion passed.
4. Audience Comments
One audience member had comments. No follow-up was requested.
5. Personnel Addendum
Mr. Thompson made a motion to approve the personnel addendum. Ms. Robbins seconded. All
were in favor, motion passed.
6. Board of Education Report
There were no new matters to discuss.
7. Finance and Operations Report
The Board reviewed student enrollment and they were provided with a detailed report of the
district financials for all funds through the month of April. The funds were in balance and the
district continues to be in a financially stable condition.
Ms. Beebe reviewed the results of the Building Condition Assessment Report.
8. Superintendent Report
Dr. Gibbon presented to the school board the recommendation for the K-5 ELA curriculum
adoption.
9. Action Item
Mr. Thompson made a motion to vote on each action item individually by roll call vote. Ms.
Robbins seconded the motion. All were in favor, motion passed.
A. 2024-2025 School Calendar
Mr. Thompson made a motion to approve the 2024-2025 School Calendar. Ms. Robbins seconded.
Ms. Miller - yea
Mr. Thompson - yea
yea
Motion passed unanimously.

Ms. Robbins - yea

Mr. Harris - yea

Ms. Reclusado -

B. K-5 ELA Curriculum Adoption
Ms. Robbins made a motion to approve the recommended K-5 ELA Curriculum Adoption. Ms. Miller
seconded.
Ms. Robbins - yea
Mr. Thompson - yea
yea
Motion passed unanimously.

Ms. Miller - yea

Mr. Harris - yea

Ms. Reclusado -

10. Future Dates
The start time for the June 13th Study Session was changed to 5:45pm from the usual 5:15pm so
School Board members can attend the 8th Grade Promotion Ceremony which begins at 4:30pm.
The June 27th Board Retreat/Regular Board Meeting will begin at 8am at the Skokomish
Community Center.
11. Board Comments
Ms. Robbins commended Dawn Stanley for her exceptional care of the rhododendrons which were
temporarily transplanted to Hunter Farms during construction of the school building.
12. Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 6:35pm.

