    Arlington Public Schools
Board of Directors
Regular Meeting Minutes
Monday, September 9, 2024
    Call to Order
President Levesque called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm.
  Land Acknowledgement
Student Advisor Nathan Nichols shared a land acknowledgement recognizing that the area in which we gather is within the traditional territory of the Stillaguamish Tribe of Indians.
  Pledge of Allegiance
Student Advisor Deja Reed conducted the Pledge of Allegiance.
  Roll Call Attendance
The clerk called roll. Directors Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp, Sheri Kelly, Matt Dimond, Nicole Watts, Student Advisors Nathan Nichols, Deja Reed and Superintendent Sweeting were in attendance.
  Approval of the Agenda
President Levesque asked if there were any amendments to the agenda. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the agenda as proposed.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Nicole Watts.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

Presentations/Recognitions
A. Introduction of New Staff Members
Eric DeJong, Executive Director of Human Resources, shared a presentation to introduce the new Arlington Public Schools 2024-25 staff members.
  Approval of Minutes
A. Regular Meeting Minutes - August 26, 2024
President Levesque asked if there were any corrections to the regular meeting minutes of August 26, 2024. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the regular meeting minutes of August 26, 2024, as presented.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Matt Dimond.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  Public Comments
There were no public comments.
  Consent Agenda
The consent agenda included:
  A. Personnel Report
B. Payroll Report - August 2024
C. Warrants
D. Collective Bargaining Agreement with AEA
E. Exempt Administrator Salary Schedule
F. Non-Represented Classified Salary Schedule
G. AHS Booster Club Donation to AHS Aerie
H. AHS Booster Club Donation to AHS Cheer
 I. Career and Technical Education (CTE) Program Approval for the 2024-25 School Year
 J. Career and Technical Education (CTE) 4-Year Plan
 K. Career and Technical Education (CTE) Advisory Committee/Board Membership
 L. RET Physical Therapy for Athletic Training Renewal
 M. Approval of Board/Superintendent Team Goals for 2024-25
  Motion: That the Board approves the Consent Agenda as presented.

Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

New Business
A. UDL - Best Teaching Practices - Wave Generator Project Presentation
Kari Henderson-Burke, Executive Director of Teaching and Learning, introduced Andrea O'Keefe, Math Teacher at Arlington High School, who shared information and a Universal Design for Learning activity video of her math students building a wave generator so that they could see sine and cosine waves in action. There was discussion.
  B. Opening Schools 2024-25
Dr. Sweeting shared a presentation about the 2024-25 opening of Arlington schools with information and photos of various trainings and professional development opportunities staff participated in, ways in which the district and schools connected with families and community organizations, the hiring of new staff, school maintenance/construction projects completed during the summer and the happy, smiling faces of families, students and staff during the first week of school at each of our schools.
  Informational Items
A. Superintendent's Report
Superintendent Sweeting thanks everyone for their efforts in preparing for the 2024-25 grand opening of Arlington schools. In addition to the information presented in her Opening Schools report, she shared that capital levy information presentations to staff, PTA's, Boosters and other community organizations have been scheduled and started this week.
 
B. Legislative Update and Discussion
Director Kelly reminded the board to review the proposed bills for the upcoming General Assembly, identify their top ten priorities and forward their recommendations to Superintendent Sweeting. 
  C. Comments from Board Members
Topics of general interest were shared by the Board.
  D. Next Meetings
Study Session and Regular Board Meeting

Monday, September 23, 2024

Study Session begins at 4:00 pm
Arlington Public Schools District Office Lincoln Room
315 N French Avenue
Arlington, WA 98223

Regular Meeting begins at 6:00 pm
Arlington Public Schools District Office Board Room
315 N French Avenue
Arlington, WA 98223

Adjournment
With there being no further business before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 6:49 pm.
  Motion: That the meeting be adjourned.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Nicole Watts.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

   