        Arlington Public Schools
Board of Directors
Regular Meeting Minutes
Monday, February 12, 2024
    Call to Order
President Levesque called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm.
  Land Acknowledgement
Dr. Chrys Sweeting, Superintendent, shared a land acknowledgment recognizing that the area in which we gather is within the traditional territory of the Stillaguamish Tribe of Indians.
  Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance was conducted.
  Roll Call Attendance
The clerk called roll. Directors Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Matt Dimond, Student Advisors Mariska Lebahn, Nathan Nichols and Superintendent Sweeting were in attendance.
  Approval of the Agenda
President Levesque asked if there were any amendments to the agenda. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the agenda as proposed.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

Presentations/Recognitions
A. Student Presentation - Kent Prairie Elementary Students - HiCap Student's Special Projects
Kent Prairie Elementary's Principal Colleen Van Belle and highly capable students, Theoden Lognion, 5th grade, and Saphira Lognion, 3rd grade, along with their teachers, Heather Jones and Nikki Brooks, provided the Board with presentations on their special projects.
  B. Recognition of The Lions Club
Dave McKellar, Director of Special Education, and Krissa Cramer, District Nurse, expressed the District's appreciation and recognized The Arlington Lions Club for their support in conducting vision screenings in the fall of 2023. In total, the team covered nine buildings over six different days totaling 2,861 students screened. Several of the members attended the meeting and accepted the recognition on behalf of The Lions Club. Volunteer Tam Conrad was also recognized for her time facilitating the logistics and scheduling of the screenings for each building.
  Approval of Minutes
A. Study Session and Regular Meeting Minutes - January 22, 2024
President Levesque asked if there were any corrections to the study session and regular meeting minutes of January 22, 2024. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the study session and regular meeting minutes of January 22, 2024, as presented.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  Public Comments
There were no public comments.
  Consent Agenda
The Consent Agenda included:
  A. Personnel Report
B. Payroll Report - January 2024
C. Warrants
D. Out of State Travel for AHS AFJROTC to Oregon City, OR March 15-17, 2024
E. Overnight Field Trip - AFJROTC to Orienteering National Championships, Quincy, WA
F. Overnight/Out-of-State Field Trip - AHS Aerie Choir to Worldstrides Heritage Festival - Anaheim, CA 4.25 through 4.28.24
G. Overnight/Out-of-State Trip - AHS Flight Jazz Choir to Fullerton Jazz Festival (CA) - 4/18 through 4/21/2024
H. Overnight Field Trip - AHS Boys Wrestling to State Championships - Tacoma, WA 2.16-2.17.24
 I. Overnight Field Trip - AHS Girls Wrestling to State Championships - Tacoma, WA 2.16-2.17.24
 J. Out-of-State & Overnight Trip - A. Hayman to JEA/NSPA Spring Conference
 K. Snohomish County for Student Support Advocate Program Interlocal Agreement
 L. District Strategic Plan - Revised
  Motion: That the Board approves the Consent Agenda as presented.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Matt Dimond.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

New Business
A. UDL - Best Teaching Practices - 3 Act Task and Word Problem Student Interviews
Kari Henderson-Burke, Executive Director of Teaching and Learning, and Johnathan Bennett from Leanne Verbeck's 4th grade classroom, and Amy Jo Irwin's 3rd grade classroom from Eagle Creek Elementary (via video), shared how Universal Design for Learning (UDL), is being utilized in the classroom by showing videos of student interviews on the 3 Act Task method of solving math word problems. There was discussion.
  B. First Reading of Board Policy 5280 Separation from Employment
Eric DeJong, Executive Director of Human Resources, presented for first reading proposed revisions to Board Policy 5280 Separation from Employment. Eric answered questions from the Board.
  Informational Items
A. Superintendent's Report
Superintendent Sweeting expressed her appreciation to the students at Eagle Creek Elementary for the beautiful bouquet of handmade flowers they delivered to the district office today. The flowers were made by students as part of Eagle Creek's Great Kindness Challenge. This is the seventh year Eagle Creek students have participated in the Challenge. She offered congratulations to Abbey Zanni for receiving a full scholarship from the AFJROTC. Dr. Sweeting also shared congratulations to Jeff Keeley for earning his National Board Certification and informed the Board that five other teachers, Kathleen Nichols, Benjamin Robison, Jacqueline Winebrenner, Leigh Anne Rohloff and Joshua Thayer have obtained their National Board Recertifications. She wished everyone a happy hearts day and reminded them to vote by end-of-day tomorrow.

B. Legislative Update and Discussion
Director Kelly shared that there are a couple of bills before the legislature that she is watching. There is a house bill that would increase state funding for Maintenance, Supplies and Operating Costs (MSOC), and another one that would increase the funding cap for Special Education. There is also a proposed bill to raise para educator pay.
  She recently spoke with Representative Shavers and asked him about the progress of changing the supermajority. He stated that the bill is not moving, and that we will probably not see anything happening with it this session. She also attended a meeting with Shelby Kreminich, Community Liaison to Representative DelBene, which was very informative. Shelby is sharing information on state and federal initiatives Representative DelBene is sponsoring that support education with school districts. Sheri is hopeful that Arlington will be able to benefit from some of these propositions.
  Director Kelly also attended a roundtable discussion with Representative April Berg, who is a big advocate for education. She provided roundtable attendees with insight into the new members of the house and senate, as well as provided tips on how to be effective when speaking to legislators. April expressed the importance of sharing how legislative decisions and programs are impacting our students, highlighting student success and letting them know the continued needs of your students/district. She encouraged board legislative representatives to leave "no stone unturned" as the legislative session will be wrapping up quickly.

C. Comments from Board Members
Topics of general interest were shared by the Board.
  D. Next Meetings
Study Session and Regular Board Meeting

Monday, February 26, 2024

Study Session begins at 4:00 pm
Arlington Public Schools District Office Lincoln Room
315 N French Avenue
Arlington, WA 98223

Regular Meeting begins at 6:00 pm
Arlington Public Schools District Office Board Room
315 N French Avenue
Arlington, WA 98223
  Adjournment
With there being no further business before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 7:06 pm.
  Motion: That the meeting be adjourned.
  Motion by Sheri Kelly, second by Matt Dimond.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

   