      Arlington Public Schools
Board of Directors
Study Session and Regular Meeting Minutes
Monday, September 23, 2024
    STUDY SESSION
  Call to Order
President Levesque called the study session to order at 4:00 pm.
  Pledge of Allegiance
Student Advisor Deja Reed conducted the Pledge of Allegiance.
  Roll Call Attendance
The clerk called roll. Directors Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp, Matt Dimond and Nicole Watts, Student Advisor Deja Reed and Superintendent Sweeting were in attendance. Director Kelly arrived at approximately 4:06 pm. Student Advisor Nathan Nichols was not in attendance.
  Approval of the Study Session Agenda
President Levesque asked if there were any changes to the study session agenda. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the study session agenda as proposed.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Matt Dimond.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  Overview
A. Strategic Goals
B. District Norms
C. Learning Outcomes for this Study Session
Superintendent Sweeting shared an overview of the learning outcomes and activities for the study session.
  Activities & Topics for Discussion
A. OSPI Report Card and District Data
Kari Henderson-Burke, Executive Director of Teaching and Learning, shared information about the content of the OSPI report card, recent revisions to the Washington State language descriptors for Smarter Balance Assessment (SBA) results, and reviewed student data in reading and math. There was discussion.

The study session was recessed at 4:45 for a short break. The study session resumed at 4:50 pm.
  B. Building Board Team Effectiveness - Review of Board-Superintendent Operating Principles, Policy 1600
Superintendent Sweeting lead the Board in a Jeopardy game activity to review key principles of Policy 1600, Board-Superintendent Operating Principles, the District Strategic Plan, Universal Design for Learning (UDL), and Arlington school and community facts.
  Next Meeting & Adjournment
President Levesque shared that the Board's regular meeting will convene following the end of this study session in the Board Room at 6:00 pm.
  With there being no further activities before the Board, the study session concluded at 5:18 pm.
  Motion: That the study session be adjourned.
  Motion by Sheri Kelly, second by Nicole Watts.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

    REGULAR MEETING
  Call to Order
President Levesque called the regular meeting to order at 6:00 pm.
  Pledge of Allegiance
Student Advisor Deja Reed conducted the Pledge of Allegiance.
  Roll Call Attendance
The clerk called roll. Directors Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp, Sheri Kelly, Matt Dimond and Nicole Watts, Student Advisor Deja Reed and Superintendent Sweeting were in attendance. Student Advisor Nathan Nichols was not in attendance.
  Approval of the Regular Meeting Agenda
President Levesque asked if there were any amendments to the agenda. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the regular meeting agenda as proposed.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Nicole Watts.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp
  Approval of Minutes
A. Regular Meeting Minutes - September 9, 2024
President Levesque asked if there were any corrections to the regular meeting minutes of September 9, 2024. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the regular meeting minutes of September 9, 2024, as presented.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Matt Dimond.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  Public Comments
There were no public comments. Mr. Shepardson, who signed up to speak via Zoom, did not login to the meeting.
  Consent Agenda
The consent agenda included:
  A. Budget and Enrollment Reports
B. Personnel Report
C. Warrants
D. Arlington Administrators Association (AAA) Agreement & Salary Schedule 2024-27
E. PSE Contract--Negotiated Amendments for Remainder of Contract - 2023-26
F. Snohomish County Human Services - ECEAP Program Contract 2024-25
G. Balfour-Taylor Yearbooks Agreement - Arlington High School 2024-25
H. Transitional Bilingual Instructional Program (TBIP) for the 2024-25 School Year
I. Renaissance Quote for STAR Math, STAR Reading and STAR Essential Suite
J. Mental Health Counselor Cooperative Agreement Renewal
K. Approval of Report of District Vehicles Assigned to Staff on 24-Hour Basis
L. Affirmation of of Board-Superintendent Operating Principles, Policy 1600
  Motion: That the Board approves the Consent Agenda as presented.
  Motion by Nicole Watts, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

New Business
A. Kids' Kloset Facilities Use - Lease Agreement
Brian Lewis, Executive Director of Operations, presented for the Board's approval a facilities use-lease agreement with Kids' Kloset. Kids' Kloset is a charitable organization that provides clothing exchange services for children in the community of the Arlington School District. The proposed agreement documents the rights and responsibilities of both landlord and tenant. Brian answered questions from the Board.
A student advisory vote was taken, and Student Advisor Deja Reed stated that she would be in support of approving this lease agreement. 
  Motion: That the Board approves the Kids' Kloset Facilities Use - Lease Agreement as presented.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

B. Unemployment Compensation Insurance Program Review
Gina Zeutenhorst, Executive Director of Financial Services, shared that the District participates in the Northwest Educational Service District 189 Unemployment Compensation Pool (Pool), a public entity risk pool for unemployment insurance. Board Policy 6530, Insurance, indicates that the unemployment compensation program is to be reviewed annually by the Board. A briefing and presentation of pertinent details around the financial operation of the pool was presented. Gina answered questions from the Board.
  Informational Items
A. Superintendent's Report
Superintendent Sweeting shared that on October 3rd she will be meeting with community members from the Stillaguamish Valley Health Connections and Kerri Helgeson, Director of Equity and Student Well-Being, to plan a coalition to address substance abuse based on information from student surveys. On October 24th, the district will host the Arlington Golden Eagles at a Community Voices and pie social event at Post Middle School. She gave kudos to the Arlington High School Marching Band for being showcased by Fox 13 during the halftime show of the Ravens vs Cowboys football game on Sunday, September 22nd. She also reported that the Board has been selected by WSSDA to be presenters at the annual conference in November. Our presentation will be Thursday, November 21st, 4:20 - 5:20 pm, and preparations for the presentation will begin soon.

B. Legislative Update and Discussion
Director Kelly reported that she attended the WSSDA General Assembly, and shared a few of the proposals that she thought would be of interest to the Board. She proposed the possibility of the Board amending or proposing a bill next year, either separately or in conjunction with another school district. She encouraged the district to continue inviting legislators into our schools, so that they can see how the needs of our students are underfunded. 
  C. Comments from Board Members
Topics of general interest were shared by the Board.
  D. Next Meeting
Regular Board Meeting

Monday, October 14, 2024 at 6:00 pm
Arlington Public Schools District Office Board Room
315 N French Avenue
Arlington, WA 98223
  Adjournment
With there being no further business before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 6:31 pm.
  Motion: That the meeting be adjourned.
  Motion by Sheri Kelly, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

   