    Arlington Public Schools
Board of Directors 
Study Session and Regular Meeting Minutes
Monday, June 10, 2024
  STUDY SESSION 
  Call to Order 
President Levesque called the study session to order at 4:00 pm.
  Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance was conducted.
  Roll Call Attendance
The clerk called roll. Directors Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp, Matt Dimond and Superintendent Sweeting were in attendance. Student Advisors Mariska Lebahn and Nathan Nichols were absent. Director Kelly joined the meeting at 4:13 pm.
  Approval of the Study Session Agenda
President Levesque asked if there were any changes to the study session agenda. There were none. 
  Motion: That the Board approves the study session agenda as proposed.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Erica Knapp.
Yea: Matt Dimond, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp
Not Present at Vote: Sheri Kelly

Overview 
A. Strategic Goals
B. District Norms
C. Learning Outcomes for this Study Session
Superintendent Sweeting shared an overview of the learning outcomes and activities for the study session.
  Executive Session 
A. Executive Session to Review the Performance of an Employee - Superintendent's Evaluation
President Levesque recessed the study session at 4:04 pm to convene an Executive Session to review the performance of an employee - Superintendent's evaluation. She estimated that the study session would reconvene at approximately 4:25 pm.
The study session was reconvened at 4:32 pm.
  Activities & Topics for Discussion 
A. Building Board Team Effectiveness
Superintendent Sweeting lead the group in an appreciation activity. Each attendee was instructed to write something they appreciate about the person to their right and left on blue and yellow pieces of paper. The appreciation thoughts were read out loud.
  B. Arlington Public Schools 2023-24 Retiree Recognition
The Board attended the Arlington Public Schools 2023-24 Retiree Recognition at Presidents Elementary from approximately 4:45 pm to 5:38 pm.
  Next Meeting & Adjournment
President Levesque shared that the Board's Regular Meeting will convene following the end of this study session in the Board Room at 6:00 pm.
  With there being no further activities before the Board, the study session concluded at 5:40 pm.
  Motion: That the study session be adjourned.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

    REGULAR MEETING
  Call to Order
President Levesque called the regular meeting to order at 6:00 pm.
  B. Land Acknowledgement
Dr. Chrys Sweeting, Superintendent, shared a land acknowledgement recognizing that the area in which we gather is within the traditional territory of the Stillaguamish Tribe of Indians.
  C. Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance was conducted.
  D. Roll Call Attendance
The clerk called roll. Directors Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp, Sheri Kelly, Matt Dimond, Student Advisors Mariska Lebahn, Nathan Nichols and Superintendent Sweeting were in attendance.
  E. Approval of the Regular Meeting Agenda
President Levesque asked if there were any amendments to the agenda. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the regular meeting agenda as proposed.
  Motion by Sheri Kelly, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  Presentations/Recognitions
A. Introduction of New Student Advisors
Superintendent Sweeting and Britt Kleinman, Chair of the Advisory Council for Education (ACE), introduced or announced the names of the following new student advisors: Student Advisor to the Board, Deja Reed, Advisory Council for Education (ACE) Student Advisors, Nicolas Bleken, Kailyn Geist, Mikaela Harrington, Aly Kleinman, Carson Raz, Addy Smith and Franklin Vincenzi, Budget Advisory Task Force (BATF) Student Advisors, Xander Andersen, Jackson Bauer and Baile O'Brien Linklater, District and Community Equity Team (DCET) Student Advisors, Gabriel Atienzo, Noah Climacosa, Mayra Cruz, Kailey Larson, Adolfo Perez, Facilities Advisory Committee (FAC) Student Advisors, Caitlin Calloway, Ayden Stecher, and Student Advisory Council (SAC) Student Advisors, Emry Bussert, Joicee Contajioso, Izabella Douglas, Chayse Hall, Lyla Morzelewski and Harper Winters. All of the new student advisors will also be members of the Student Advisory Council.

Deja Reed will be sworn in at a Board Meeting in August, and the ACE, BATF, DCET, FAC and SAC student advisors will begin their service in September.
  B. Student Presentation - Haller Middle School - Art in the Middle Schools
Brooke Howell, Principal, Haller Middle School, Lanette Ziegler, Life Skills teacher/Art Club advisor, and 6th grade art club students Kelsey Ozias and Amelia Stoye, shared a presentation with the Board about art in the middle schools. 
  C. Honoring Our 2023-24 Retirees
Executive Director of Human Resources, Eric DeJong, shared that 19 staff members from all schools and departments across the district were recognized at this year's retiree recognition at Presidents Elementary School prior to the board meeting. A video presentation was shown in their honor.
  Approval of Minutes
A. Study Session and Regular Meeting Minutes - May 28th, 2024
President Levesque asked if there were any corrections to the study session and regular meeting minutes of May 28, 2024. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the study session and regular meeting minutes of May 28th, 2024, as presented.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  Public Comments
There were no public comments.
  Consent Agenda
The consent agenda included:
  A. Personnel Report
B. Payroll Report - May 2024
C. Warrants
D. Outdoor Schools Washington Grant Approval
E. Overnight Field Trip Request for 5th Grade Students to Cedar Springs Camp (Lake Stevens, WA) 9.30 - 10.4.24
F. Overnight Travel - School Board to WSSDA Annual Conference, Spokane, WA, Nov. 21-23, 2024
G. Resolution 24-09 Authorization to Invest Funds
H. Superintendent's Contract
I. Washington State Auditor's Office Interagency Data Sharing Agreement 2024-2027
J. NWESD 189 - Legal Services Cooperative Interlocal Agreement 2024-25
K. Request for Declaration as Surplus
  New Business
A. Resolution 24-08 Honoring Student Advisor to the Board of Directors, Mariska Lebahn
Each Board member read a portion of Resolution 24-08 Honoring Student Advisor to the Board of Directors, Mariska Lebahn. The Board expressed their appreciation for Mariska's contribution to the Board along with gifts and flowers. Mariska expressed her appreciation to the Board for the opportunity.
  Motion: That the Board approves Resolution 24-08 Honoring Student Advisor to the Board of Directors, Mariska Lebahn.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  B. Advisory Council for Education (ACE) Annual Report
Britt Kleinman, Advisory Council for Education (ACE) Chair, provided the Board with an overview of the work the committee performed during the 2023-24 school year and shared proposed topics of interest for next year. Britt recognized ACE's graduating seniors, Alyssa Acosta, Rosa Barkley, Grant Cramer and Ava Wolfe, and thanked them for their contribution to the committee.
  C. Annual McKinney-Vento Report
Brian Long, Director of College and Career Readiness, shared an overview of the status of the District's McKinney-Vento program and answered questions from the Board.
  D. Draft 2024 Capital Facilities Plan Update
Brian Lewis, Executive Director of Operations, shared a draft update to the District's 2024-2029 Capital Facilities Plan. The updated plan includes calculations that shows the district is eligible to collect impact fees based on the rate of projected student population growth. A comparison of the current impact fees and projected impact fees calculated were included in the update. A revised plan will be submitted for Board consideration in August 2024. Brian answered questions from the Board.
  E. Adoption of the 2024-25 Board Meeting Schedule
Superintendent Sweeting presented the 2024-25 meeting schedule for Board approval.
  Motion: That the Board adopts the 2024-25 Board Meeting Schedule as proposed.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  F. Middle School PE Credit Revision Update
Kari Henderson-Burke, Executive Director of Teaching and Learning, and Kyle Axelson, Assistant Principal, Arlington High School, provided the Board with an update on Middle School PE Credit revisions. Information regarding the impact of high school PE credits being granted at the middle school level was presented at the January 22, 2024 and March 25, 2024 Board Study Sessions. Kari and Kyle answered questions from the Board.
    G. First Reading of Board Policy 5005 Employment and Volunteers: Disclosures, Certification Requirements, Assurances and Approval and Policy 5401 Sick Leave
Eric DeJong, Executive Director of Human Resources, presented for first reading proposed revisions to Board Policy 5005 Employment and Volunteers: Disclosures, Certification Requirements, Assurance and Approval and Policy 5401 Sick Leave. Eric answered questions from the Board. No changes were requested for 5005. It was requested by the Board to add the word "consecutive" after the word "three (3)" to the proposed revisions to the sick leave policy 5401.
  Informational Items
A. Superintendent's Report
Superintendent Sweeting shared that the district's graduating seniors participated in a "Grad Walk" at the elementary and middle schools today. High school graduations are this week, with Weston High School's ceremony on Tuesday, June 11th at 5:30 pm at the BPAC, and Arlington High School's ceremony on Thursday, June 13th at 5:00 pm at Angel of the Winds Arena. Middle Schools will also be celebrating their 8th graders. Post Middle School's open house will be held on Tuesday, June 11th, from 4:00 - 6:00 pm and Haller Middle School's celebration will be held on Friday, June 14th, from 4:00 - 6:00 pm. The last day of school is a week from today, Monday, June 17th. 

B. Legislative Update and Discussion
Director Kelly had no new legislative news to report, but shared about a recent school visit she had while attending a training in Walla Walla. 
  C. Comments from Board Members
Topics of general interest were shared by the Board.
  D. Next Meetings
Study Session and Regular Board Meeting

Study Session begins at 4:00 pm
Monday, July 8, 2024
Arlington Public Schools District Office Lincoln Room
315 N French Avenue
Arlington, WA 98223


Regular Meeting begins at 6:00 pm

Monday, July 8, 2024
Arlington Public Schools District Office Board Room
315 N French Avenue
Arlington, WA 98223
    Adjournment
With there being no further business before the Board, the meeting as adjourned at 7:54 pm.
  Motion: That the meeting be adjourned.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Matt Dimond.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

   