PENDING APPROVAL
  Arlington Public Schools
Board of Directors
Study Session and Regular Meeting Minutes
Monday, November 25, 2024
      STUDY SESSION
  Call to Order
President Levesque called the study session to order at 4:00 pm.
  Pledge of Allegiance
Student Advisor Deja Reed conducted the Pledge of Allegiance.
  Roll Call Attendance
The clerk called roll. Directors Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp, Matt Dimond and Nicole Watts, Student Advisors Nathan Nichols, Deja Reed and Superintendent Sweeting were in attendance. Director Kelly joined the meeting at 4:06 pm.
  Approval of the Study Session Agenda
President Levesque asked if there were any changes to the study session agenda. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the study session agenda as proposed.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Nicole Watts.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

Overview 
A. Strategic Goals
B. District Norms
C. Learning Outcomes for this Study Session
Superintendent Sweeting shared an overview of the learning outcomes and activities for the study session.
  Activities & Topics for Discussion
A. Capital Levy Discussion and Next Steps for Post Middle School
Superintendent Sweeting and Brian Lewis, Executive Director of Operations, shared the Capital Levy to replace Post Middle School election results and survey results, and lead the Board in a discussion about potential next steps for Post Middle School.
  B. Student Achievement Data Update - Part 2
Due to the length of the Capital Levy Discussion, this agenda item was tabled for a future meeting.
  Next Meeting & Adjournment
President Levesque shared that the Board's regular meeting will convene following the end of this study session in the Board Room at 6:00 pm.
  With there being no further business before the Board, the study session concluded at 5:26 pm.
  Motion: That the study session be adjourned.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Nicole Watts.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  REGULAR MEETING
  Call the Regular Meeting to Order
President Levesque called the regular meeting to order at 6:00 pm.
  Pledge of Allegiance
Student Advisor Deja Reed conducted the Pledge of Allegiance.
    Roll Call Attendance
The clerk called roll. Directors Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp, Sheri Kelly, Matt Dimond and Nicole Watts, Student Advisors Nathan Nichols, Deja Reed and Superintendent Sweeting were in attendance.
    Approval of the Regular Meeting Agenda
President Levesque asked if there were any amendments to the agenda. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the regular meeting agenda as proposed.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp
 
Presentations/Recognitions
A. Stilly Valley Chamber of Commerce - National Civics Bee
Diane Krieg, the Executive Director of Stilly Valley Chamber of Commerce, shared information about the 2025 National Civics Bee they are hosting on March 22, 2025.
  B. Transition Program Presentation
Brenda Wyman, Director of Learning Support, and Madison Taylor, Transition Program teacher, along with Selena Burnett, Transition Program student from Weston High School, shared information about the Transition Program.
    Approval of Minutes
A. Regular Meeting Minutes - November 12, 2024
President Levesque asked if there were any corrections to the regular meeting minutes of November 12, 2024. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the regular meeting minutes of November 12, 2024 as presented.
  Motion by Sheri Kelly, second by Nicole Watts.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

Public Comments
There were no public comments.
  Consent Agenda
The consent agenda included:
  A. Budget and Enrollment Reports
B. Personnel Report
C. Warrants
D. Overnight/Out-of-State Trip: AHS Cheer to USA Spirit Nationals-Anaheim, CA 2.13 through 2.17.25
E. Overnight Trip - AHS Football to State 4A Playoffs - Camas, WA 11.22 through 11.23.24
F. Overnight Trip - AHS Volleyball to State 4A Volleyball Championships - Yakima, WA 11.21 through 11.23.24
G. Eastern Kentucky University College of Health Sciences Clinical Practical Education Agreement
  Motion: That the Board approves the Consent Agenda as presented.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  New Business
A. Financial Highlights of Current Budget
Gina Zeutenhorst, Executive Director of Financial Services, shared highlights from the current budget as of October 2024 budget reports. Gina answered questions from the Board.
        B. Resolution 24-13 Interfund Loan
Gina Zeutenhorst, Executive Director of Financial Services, reported that the District has been carefully tracking cash flow. Projections indicate continued cash shortfalls will be experienced for the month of November, and through the months of December to mid-April and then into May. The District is requesting interfund loan authorization with cumulative amounts not to exceed $3 million so that current obligations for November through mid-April/May can be met.
  Motion: That the Board approves Resolution 24-13 Interfund Loan.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Nicole Watts.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  C. Merl McGuire Mayo Scholarship Discussion
Gina Zeutenhorst, Executive Director of Financial Services, shared that the amount of Merl McGuire Mayo scholarship funds available for distribution to students this year is $67,000. The Board discussed the number and amount of scholarships they want to make available out of the $67,000. At the December 9 regular meeting, the Board will have the opportunity to take action to approve the combination (number/amounts/years renewable) of scholarships. The majority of the Board thought Option 5 was the best distribution for the scholarships.
    D. Interlocal Agreement with Public Hospital District No. 3 Establishing the Arlington Coalition for Healthy and Resilient Youth
Superintendent Sweeting shared that after a review of the 2023 Healthy Youth Survey results it was determined that there is a significant need to educate students and their parents/guardians regarding youth substance abuse, misuse, and prevention. The Arlington Coalition for Healthy and Resilient Youth is being launched to bring community partners together to address these needs and support healthier and more resilient youth. The interlocal agreement with Public Hospital District No. 3 outlines each District's involvement and responsibilities as members of the Arlington Coalition for Healthy and Resilient Youth. 
  Student Advisors Deja Reed and Nathan Nichols both voted in support of this agreement. 
  Motion: That the Board approves the Interlocal Agreement with the Public Hospital District No. 3 establishing the Arlington Coalition for Healthy and Resilient Youth as presented.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Nicole Watts.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  E. Universal Design for Learning (UDL) 2024-25 Series - AHS LifeSkills Program
Kari Henderson-Burke, Executive Director of Teaching and Learning, shared a video showing how Universal Design for Learning (UDL), is being used in the Arlington High School's LifeSkills Program. Kari answered questions from the Board.
    F. Learning from the 2024 WSSDA Annual Conference
The Board shared learning experiences and highlights from their attendance at the 2024 WSSDA Annual Conference in Spokane.
    G. Second Reading and Adoption of Board Policies 3205 Sexual Harassment of Students Prohibited, 3206 Pregnant and Parenting Students, 5011 Sexual Harassment of District Staff Prohibited and 5012 Parent Family Marital Status and Pregnancy
Eric DeJong, Executive Director of Human Resources, presented for second reading and adoption the proposed revisions to Board Policies 3205 Sexual Harassment of Students Prohibited, 3206 Pregnant and Parenting Students, 5011 Sexual Harassment of District Staff Prohibited and 5012 Parent Family Marital Status and Pregnancy.
  Motion: That the Board approves for second reading and adoption Board Policies 3205 Sexual Harassment of Students Prohibited, 3206 Pregnant and Parenting Students, 5011 Sexual Harassment of District Staff Prohibited and 5012 Parent Family Marital Status and Pregnancy as presented.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  Informational Items
A. Superintendent's Report
Superintendent Sweeting read a thank you note from a recipient of the Merl McGuire Mayo Endowment scholarship. She expressed her appreciation for the Board, the Arlington community at large and the Arlington school communty, and wished everyone a happy Thanksgiving. 
  B. Legislative Update and Discussion
Director Kelly reported that many legislative representatives from her leadership group are planning an advocacy rally sometime in January, and she feels that we are moving toward the model of year-round advocacy. It is important to remind legislators about why we matter, why they need to come to our schools and support them, and to help educate the public on the state's responsibilities, school district limitations, and for OSPI and the legislature to educate the public about school finance.
  C. Comments from Board Members
Topics of general interest were shared by the Board.
  D. Next Meetings
Study Session and Regular Board Meeting

Monday, December 9, 2024

Study Session begins at 4:00 pm
Arlington Public Schools District Office Lincoln Room
315 N French Avenue
Arlington, WA 98223

Regular Meeting begins at 6:00 pm
Arlington Public Schools District Office Board Room
315 N French Avenue
Arlington, WA 98223
    Adjournment
With there being no further action before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 7:22 pm.
  Motion: That the meeting be adjourned.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

   