    Arlington Public Schools
Board of Directors
Study Session and Regular Meeting Minutes
Monday, February 26, 2024
  STUDY SESSION
  Call to Order 
Vice President Erica Knapp called the study session to order at 4:00 pm.
  Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance was conducted.
  Roll Call Attendance
The clerk called roll. Directors Matt Dimond, Michael Kingman, Erica Knapp and Superintendent Sweeting were in attendance. Directors Mary Levesque, Student Advisors Mariska Lebahn and Nathan Nichols were absent. Director Kelly joined the study session at 4:05 pm and left the study session to participate in a legislative update meeting at 5:00 pm.
  Approval of the Study Session Agenda
Vice President Erica Knapp asked if there were any changes to the study session agenda. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the study session agenda as proposed.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Michael Kingman.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Michael Kingman, Erica Knapp

  Overview
A. Strategic Goals
  B. District Norms
  C. Learning Outcomes for this Study Session
Superintendent Sweeting shared an overview of the learning outcomes and activities for the study session.
  Activities & Topics for Discussion
A. Strategic Plan Mid-Year Review and Progress for Goals 1 through 4
Board members participated in a rotation activity where they met with cabinet members and expanded cabinet members to hear an update of the mid-year progress towards the District's Strategic Goals 1 through 4.
  Next Meeting & Adjournment
Vice President Knapp shared the the Board's Regular Meeting will convene following the end of this study session in the Board Room at 6:00 pm.

With there being no further activities before the Board, the study session concluded at 5:15 pm.
  Motion: That the study session be adjourned.
  Motion by Michael Kingman, second by Matt Dimond.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Michael Kingman, Erica Knapp
Not Present at Vote: Sheri Kelly

  REGULAR MEETING
  Call to Order
Vice President Knapp called the regular meeting to order at 6:00 pm.
  Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance was conducted.
  Roll Call Attendance
The clerk called roll. Directors Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Erica Knapp, Student Advisor Nathan Nichols and Superintendent Sweeting were in attendance. Director Mary Levesque and Student Advisor Mariska Lebahn were absent.
  Approval of the Regular Meeting Agenda
Vice President Knapp asked if there were any changes to the regular meeting agenda. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the regular meeting agenda as proposed.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Erica Knapp

Presentation/Recognition
A. Student Presentation - Arlington High School's Air Force Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFJROTC) Program Mission Brief
Major Mike Blue, (retired) United States Air Force and Senior Aerospace Science Instructor, along with Cadet Captain Kylie Abbey-Zanni, Squadron Commander, Cadet 2nd Lieutenant Rosa Barkley, Squadron Deputy Commander, Cadet 2nd Lieutenant Josiah Christoffersen, Squadron Community Service, Cadet Master Sergeant, Devin Newell, Squadron First Sergeant and Cadet Senior Sergeant Matthew Pollick, Squadron Community Service, shared a mission brief with the Board on the Air Force Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFJROTC) program at Arlington High School. The cadets answered questions from the Board.
  Approval of Minutes
A. Regular Meeting Minutes - February 12, 2024
Vice President Knapp asked if there were any corrections to the regular meeting minutes of February 12, 2024. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the regular meeting minutes of February 12, 2024, as presented.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Erica Knapp

Public Comments
There were no public comments.
  Consent Agenda
The consent agenda included:
  A. Budget and Enrollment Reports
B. Personnel Report
C. Warrants
D. Overnight Trip - AHS Boys Basketball to State Tournament - Tacoma, WA - 2.29 - 3.3.24
E. Overnight Trip - AHS Girls Basketball to State Tournament - Tacoma, WA - 2.29 - 3.3.24
F. Overnight Trip - AHS Knowledge Bowl to State Tournament - Wenatchee, WA - 3.22 through 3.23.24
G. Transportation Support in Time of Emergency Cooperative Memorandum of Understanding - Revised
  Motion: That the Board approves the Consent Agenda as presented.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Erica Knapp

  New Business
A. Financial Highlights of Current Budget
Gina Zeutenhorst, Executive Director of Financial Services, shared highlights from the current budget as of the January 2024 budget reports. Gina answered questions from the Board.
  B. Second Reading and Adoption of Board Policy 5280 Separation from Employment
Eric DeJong, Executive Director of Human Resources, presented for second reading and adoption Board Policy 5280 Separation from Employment.
  Motion: That the Board approves for second reading and adoption Board Policy 5280 Separation from Employment.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Erica Knapp
    Informational Items
A. Superintendent's Report
Superintendent Sweeting shared that the musical "Footloose" is coming up soon at Arlington High School with performances on March 1st, 2nd, 8th and 9th. There is a Cultural Night sponsored by the Diversity Club at Arlington High School March 14th at 5:00 pm. Everyone is invited to attend. Last week, Arlington High School had their Parent Night. It was reported to have had a turn out of over 500 students. She also shared that there is snow in the forecast tonight, so staff will be patrolling bus routes for safety concerns in the early morning.
  B. Legislative Update and Discussion
Director Sheri Kelly, Legislative Representative, reported that SB 5462 which mandates schools in Washington to adopt curriculum that includes diverse, equitable, inclusive age-appropriate instruction materials on historically marginalized and under-represented groups is moving forward. Last night was the cutoff for bills to make it through committee to be heard on the floor for consideration. She recently attended Representative Clyde Shaver's town hall meeting in La Conner. He is the Vice Chair of the Education Committee. He and Senator Santos shared that they are hearing a lot about unfilled job opportunities due to a lack of students graduating trained in the skill areas of long-term care medical assistant, physical therapy and sports medicine. They are working with high schools and have created a task force to review and expand CTE and post-high school programs in these field areas. At the meeting, they also shared that there is proposed legislation that would lift the Special Education Cap to 17.25%. They are also looking at a bill to increase para educator wages, as many of them are making minimum wage at this time. Clyde Shavers also mentioned that alternatives for substance abuse are being explored. He supports diversion, and shared that the legislature is looking at approximately $200 million dollars for opioid prevention and treatment. Director Kelly is a strong proponent of creating relationships and extending opportunities to our government officials. She feels that this will make a big difference for Arlington in the future, especially in the area of changing the supermajority. They also shared about a program called CORE Plus where industry and schools are working together to create education around industry jobs. 
  C. Comments from Board Members
Topics of general interest were shared by the Board.
    D. Next Meeting
Regular Board Meeting

Monday, March 11, 2024 at 6:00 pm
Arlington Public Schools District Office Board Room
315 N French Avenue
Arlington, WA 98223
  Adjournment
With there being no further business before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 6:44 pm.
  Motion: That the meeting be adjourned.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Erica Knapp
   