    Arlington Public Schools
Board of Directors
Regular Meeting Minutes
Monday, January 8, 2024 
    Call to Order
President Levesque called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm.
  Land Acknowledgement
Dr. Chrys Sweeting, Superintendent, shared a land acknowledgment recognizing that the area in which we gather is within the traditional territory of the Stillaguamish Tribe of Indians.
  Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance was conducted.
  Roll Call Attendance
The clerk called roll. Directors Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Matt Dimond, Student Advisors Mariska Lebahn, Nathan Nichols and Superintendent Sweeting were in attendance.
  Approval of the Agenda
President Levesque asked if there were any amendments to the agenda. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the agenda as proposed.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

Presentations/Recognitions
A. Student Presentation - CTE Journalism Club
Anne Hayman, Eagle News Media and Careers in Education teacher, and Parker Kinney, Jorge Cardona and Chloe Falk, Arlington High School students, shared a presentation with the Board about the CTE Journalism program. The group answered questions from the Board.
  Approval of Minutes
A. Study Session and Regular Meeting Minutes - December 11, 2023
President Levesque asked if there were any corrections to the study session and regular meeting minutes of December 11, 2023. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the study session and regular meeting minutes of December 11, 2023, as presented.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp
  Public Comments
There were no public comments.
  Consent Agenda
  The consent agenda included:
  A. Budget & Enrollment Reports
B. Personnel Report
C. Payroll Report - December 2023
D. Warrants
E. Overnight Trip - AHS Key Club to PNW Key Club District Convention - Portland, OR 3.8 through 3.10.24
F. Resolution 24-01 Addition of Stanwood-Camano School District to the Sno-Isle TECH Skills Center Consortium
G. Liberty University Cooperative Agreement Renewal
H. Superintendent's Contract - Reminder of March 1 Renewal Date Pursuant to Section 5
  Motion: That the Board approves the Consent Agenda as presented.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

New Business
A. Financial Highlights of Current Budget
Gina Zeutenhorst, Executive Director of Financial Services, shared highlights from the current budget as of November 2023 budget reports. Gina answered questions from the Board.
  B. 2023-24 Student Fee Schedule ~ Amendment
Gina Zeutenhorst, Executive Director of Financial Services, presented an amendment to the student fee schedule prepared at the request of the district's Traffic Safety Education Coordinator proposing to increase the Traffic Safety Drivers Education Tuition Fee from $600 to $625, the written test fee from $45 to $50, and the drive skills test from $80 to $90. The increases would begin with the 3rd quarter which starts in February 2024. Gina answered questions from the Board.
  Motion: That the Board approves the amended 2023-24 Student Fee Schedule as presented.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

C. 2024-2025 Student Enrollment Preview
Brian Lewis, Executive Director of Operations, provided the Board with a first look at enrollment estimates for the 2024-25 school year. A final estimate, as well as building-level estimates, will be presented at a later meeting. Brian answered questions from the Board.
  D. First Reading of Board Policies 4000 Public Information Program and 5050 Contracts
Gary Sabol, Director of Communications, presented for first reading proposed revisions to Board Policy 4000 Public Information Program. There were no changes requested. Gary answered questions from the Board.
Eric DeJong, Executive Director of Human Resources, presented for first reading proposed revisions to Board Policy 5050 Contracts. There were no changes requested. Eric answered questions from the Board.
  Informational Items
A. Superintendent's Report
Superintendent Sweeting extended 'Happy New Year' wishes to everyone. She shared that January is School Board Recognition Month, and that we will be honoring our Board members at the January 22nd meeting. She expressed her appreciation to the Board for everything they do on behalf of the district, staff and students of Arlington. Cold weather is in the forecast, and our Director of Communications, Gary Sabol, has sent a message to families to be on the alert for inclement weather condition communications regarding delays.
  B. Legislative Update and Discussion
Director Kelly shared that the 2024 Legislative Session started today. She has received information on proposed bills for the session, and will be researching those bills to ascertain their effect on education and Arlington Public Schools. She feels our outreach to legislators has been effective, and wants to continue our communication with them to keep them informed about the priorities of our district. 
  C. Comments from Board Members
Topics of general interest were shared by the Board.
  D. Next Meetings
Study Session and Regular Board Meeting

Monday, January 22, 2023
Study Session begins at 4:00 pm
Arlington Public Schools District Office Lincoln Room
315 N French Avenue
Arlington, WA 98223

Regular Meeting begins at 6:00 pm
Arlington Public Schools District Office Board Room
315 N French Avenue
Arlington, WA 98223
  Adjournment
With there being no further business before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 7:31 pm.
  Motion: That the meeting be adjourned.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

   