        Arlington Public Schools
Board of Directors
Regular Meeting Minutes
Monday, March 11, 2024
    Call to Order
President Levesque called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm.
  Land Acknowledgement
Dr. Chrys Sweeting, Superintendent, shared a land acknowledgment recognizing that the area in which we gather is within the traditional territory of the Stillaguamish Tribe of Indians.
  Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance was conducted.
  Roll Call Attendance
The clerk called roll. Directors Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Matt Dimond and Superintendent Sweeting were in attendance. Student Advisors Mariska Lebahn and Nathan Nichols were absent.
  Approval of the Agenda
President Levesque asked if there were any amendments to the agenda. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the agenda as proposed.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Matt Dimond.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  Presentations/Recognitions
A. Student Presentation - Eagle Creek Elementary 4th Grade Students Salmon Project Presentation
Bethany Belisle, Eagle Creek Elementary Principal and 4th grade teachers, Julie Polkinghorn, Cory Timm, Hannah Carlson, Leanne Verbeck and Ashliegh Beard along with students Sage McKeown, Ava Beard, Hadley Daggett and Brenden Gerfin shared a presentation with the Board on their Salmon Projects. The teachers and students answered questions from the Board.

B. Education Support Professionals Recognition
Superintendent Sweeting asked all Education Support Professionals/Classified staff in attendance to come to the front of the board room. She expressed her gratitude to the group and shared an acrostic poem she'd written using the word "APPRECIATE," and mentioned that individually wrapped cookies for each classified employee were delivered to work locations today. PSE President Nanci Johnson and Vice-President Kristin McCollum each expressed their pride in representing all the wonderful Education Support Professionals in the District and thanked everyone for the treats and recognition. Eric DeJong, Executive Director of Human Resources, shared his thankfulness by gifting each classified staff member present with a chocolate bar. Cabinet members read Governor Inslee's Education Support Professional's Month Proclamation, and Board members shook hands with the classified staff and offered their thanks and appreciation. A presentation was shown in their honor. 
  Approval of Minutes
A. Study Session and Regular Meeting Minutes - February 26, 2024
President Levesque asked if there were any corrections to the study session and regular meeting minutes of February 26, 2024. There were none.
  Motion:That the Board approves the study session and regular meeting minutes of February 26, 2024, as presented.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

Public Comments
There were no public comments.
  Consent Agenda
The Consent Agenda included:
  A. Personnel Report
B. Payroll Report - February 2024
C. Warrants
D. Overnight - SkillsUSA Culinary State Conference in Tacoma, WA
E. Overnight - SkillsUSA Media Technology State Conference in Tacoma, WA
F. Overnight - SkillsUSA Manufacturing and Construction State Conference in Tacoma, WA
G. Overnight - SkillsUSA Early Childhood Education State Conference in Tacoma, WA
H. Overnight Trip - AHS Medical Club to WCTSMA State Competition/Tacoma, WA 4.18 through 4.20.24
I.Eastern Washington University Education Affiliation Agreement
  Motion: That the Board approves the Consent Agenda as presented.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Matt Dimond.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp
  New Business
A. Amendment to Fee Schedule for 2024 Summer School Tuition
Gina Zeutenhorst, Executive Director of Financial Services, shared an amendment to the Fee Schedule for 2024 Summer School Tuition. Gina answered questions from the Board. No Student Advisory Vote was taken, as student advisors were not in attendance at the meeting.
  Motion: That the Board approves the Fee Schedule Amendment as proposed.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Matt Dimond.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  B. UDL - Best Teaching Practices - SIP Goals and Collective Efficacy
Kari Henderson-Burke, Executive Director of Teaching and Learning, shared a presentation with the Board on growing collective efficacy over time, working towards goal consensus in schools, by grade levels and across the District. Kari answered questions from the Board.
  Informational Items
A. Superintendent's Report
Superintendent Sweeting restated her thanks and appreciation to the District's awesome and remarkable classified staff. She shared that the last showing of Arlington High School's musical, Footloose, on Saturday night was well done, and offered her congratulations to the cast, crew, directors and parents. She was very impressed by not just how talented the kids are, but also how the community supports the activities of the District's students. The Seniors were recognized after the performance.
  B. Legislative Update and Discussion
Director Kelly reported that the Legislative Session ended last Thursday. WSSDA has opened up its Legislative Priorities for revisions. She asked Board members to email her with any revisions they would like to submit. The deadline to submit revisions is April 8. 
  C. Comments from Board Members
Topics of general interest were shared by the Board.
  D. Next Meetings
Study Session and Regular Board Meeting

Monday, March 25, 2024

Study Session begins at 4:00 pm
Arlington Public Schools District Office Lincoln Room
315 N French Avenue
Arlington, WA 98223

Regular Meeting begins at 6:00 pm
Arlington Public Schools District Office Board Room
315 N French Avenue
Arlington, WA 98223
  The regular meeting was recessed and the Board went into Executive Session at 7:13 pm.
  Executive Session
A. Executive Session to Review the Performance of an Employee or Employees
B. Executive Session to Review the Performance of an Employee - Superintendent's Mid-Year Performance Review
  The regular meeting was reconvened at 7:40 pm.
  Adjournment
With there being no further business before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 7:40 pm.
  Motion: That the meeting be adjourned.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

   