104 N. FOURTH AVENUE
YAKIMA, WASHINGTON 98902-2636
(509) 573-7000
Website: www.YSD7.org

ACTION ITEM
DATE:

January 16, 2024

TO:

Board of Directors

FROM: Dr. Trevor Greene, Superintendent
RE:

Approval of December 2023 Board Meeting Minutes

Requested Action: That the Board of Directors approves the meeting minutes for the
following Board meetings in the month of December.
· December 4th – School Board Meeting – site visit at Eisenhower High School
· December 12th – Business School Board Meeting
YSD Strategic Plan Alignment: The Board meetings align with all of the strategic
goals throughout the year.
Fiscal Impact: Not applicable.
Background Information: The minutes from the prior month are presented at each
board meeting for approval.

Yakima School District encourages workforce diversity and complies with all state and federal laws prohibiting unlawful discrimination.

YAKIMA SCHOOL DISTRICT #7
Business Board Meeting
Monday, December 4, 2023; 4:00pm
In-person meeting, live-streamed & recorded
Eisenhower High School Site Visit

Members present
Norm Walker, Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro, Jr. and Ryan Beckett were
present.
A. CALL TO ORDER
1. President Walker called the meeting to order at 4:00pm. Jorge announced he is offering
interpretation services.
2. Pledge of Allegiance
Luanna Huang led the board in the Pledge of Allegiance. Student Kevin read the Character Word of the
Month: Curious.

3. Yakama Land Acknowledgement
A video of YSD students reciting the Land Acknowledgement was played.
4. Moment of Silence to Honor the Memory of Larry Petry
President Walker held a moment of silence to honor the memory of Larry Petry.
B. SCHOOL SITE VISIT REPORT
1. Eisenhower High School - Principal Eric Diener
Principal Eric Diener presented the attached powerpoint on Eisenhower High School.
He stared by sharing Eisenhower’s “why” statement: To grow a supportive community so that
students feel safe to take risks and discover their passion. PreCOVID and post COVID data was
presented and overall, discipline has dropped. Instructional Focus is on student engagement with
a collaborative learning technique called “Turn and Talk” - bringing the communication skill set
back post-COVID. Pre-COVID attendance rate was 62.7% and currently, both Davis and Ike
were in the high 80% last week.
The migrant Graduation rate pre-COVID was under 70% and now it is at 95% graduation rate.
This program is working. Two migrant advocates and a migrant specialist are integral.
Director Navarro, Jr. asked what courses students are completing for their transcript. A student
can earn over 100 credits during HS. They work at reminding students to get their transcripts to
the college they want to enroll in.
Ike is willing to embrace the culture of their students. One example is the newly started Mariachi
Band that Jeremy Freiz, Washington State Music Teacher of the Year, started this year.
Academics - they did a survey on male Hispanic students to see why that demographic wasn't
partaking - so they expanded their Dual Credit to the interest of their students.

Graciela commended all he has done and expressed appreciation that he you surveyed students
on AP classes. Please invite her to the next mariachi performance.
They toured the school at 4:30pm and visited the Aqua-Culture room and the Hydroponics
(farming) rooms. The board came back together from the tour at 5:00pm.
Director Beckett asked about enrollment numbers. Jake Kuper shared there were 27 students that
did not get their first choice of placement into high school. His enrollment staff called all 27
students to offer them a chance and only two of the 27 opted to move to the other school. Once
the students start classes, they like to stay put.
C. UPDATES
1. Members of the Board
Director Rice shared her experience at the WSSDA Annual Conference two weeks ago. YSD Student
Fellows presented at the conference, Asst Supt Anthony Murrietta taught a workshop and Erin Jones was
the Emcee. There were 1,400 school board members at the conference.
Vice President Villanueva also attended the WSSDA Annual Conference. One of the sessions she found
helpful was the governance model and interesting to see how other boards run. She mentioned the YSD
student voice session had the most engaged audience.

2. Superintendent's Update
Supt Greene echoed their comments on the presentation of the YSD students. He reminded the
board that there are three Districts in binding status in Washington State. Supt Greene has met
with every principal individually regarding our upcoming budget reductions. He then shared
some highlights from his recent LinkedIn posts, which included some photos from the WSSDA
conference with the student presenter, and his site visits at K-8 Online and Lewis and Clark MS.
3. Legislative Priorities Discussion
Proposed 2023-24 Legislative Priorities:
FULL FUNDING OF SPECIAL EDUCATION: Bridge the funding gap in special education,
honoring the rights of students with disabilities to access complete and equitable educational
services.
FAIR RESOURCE ALLOCATION REFORM: Revise regionalization and experience factor
methodologies for equitable and consistent resource distribution among Washington school
districts.
SUPPORT CAPITAL FACILITIES: Update funding formulas and allow simple majority votes
for school bonds, addressing the financial challenges in school construction and modernization.
Another suggestion was from Director Beckett.
Director Navarro, Jr. said simple majority - he doesn't want to change this. This is difficult for
him to support at this time. He is ok with supporting the capital portion but looks like there are
two more

Director Beckett inquired about measuring success in achieving Legislative Priorities, noting the
challenge posed by local legislators being in the minority. Supt Greene said if you never ask, the
answer is always no. Director Beckett expressed reservations about the third priority, suggesting
it appeared overly focused on funding. He advocated for a revised approach that better
communicates the district's objectives, including addressing student achievement and declining
enrollment, though he's open to proceeding if the board agrees.
Director Rice and VP Villanueva support all three of these priorities as they reflect the needs of
the students in our district.
That the board approves the three legislative priorities proposed for the 2023-24 school year: Full
funding of SpEd, Fair resource allocation reform, and Support capital facilities.
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 3/1/1.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Norm Walker
Nay: Raymond Navarro Jr
Abstain: Ryan Beckett
4. Calendar Updates and Future Agenda Items
These are listed in BoardDocs.
5. Comments from the Public on Agenda Items
Elizabeth Castro is a Heritage University nursing student and presented to the board as an assignment for
her class.

D. APPROVALS
1. Approval to Contract With Next Level Speech for the 2023/24 School Year
President Walker commented that there is only one graduate program in the state for Speech
therapy, hence the lack of people to hire.
That the Board of Directors grants approval to contract with Next Level Speech for the 2023-24
school year in the amount of $1,285,000.00 to provide Speech Language Pathology services to
support students with special needs.
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
2. Second Opportunity for Comments from the Public - All Other
No comments at this time.
E. POLICY GOVERNANCE
1. Policy 1000.2.3 EL Financial Condition and Activities - Jake Kuper
A Survey Monkey will be sent out to board members and due by Friday, Dec 8.

2. Approval for Policy 1000.2.6 Public Access to Facilities
That the Board of Directors approves the rating reports for Policy 1000.2.6 Public Access to
Facilities.
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Ryan Beckett. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
F. EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. Move to Executive Session
There was no need for an executive session tonight.
G. ADJOURNMENT
1. Adjournment
President Walker adjourned at 5:55pm.

Norm Walker, President

Trevor Greene, Secretary to the Board

YAKIMA SCHOOL DISTRICT #7
Business Board Meeting
Tuesday, December 12; 7:00pm
Virtual meeting, live-streamed & recorded
Yakima, Washington

Members present
Norm Walker, Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro, Jr. and Ryan Beckett were
present.
A. CALL TO ORDER
1. Interpretation Services
President Walker called the meeting to order at 7:00pm and translation services were offered.
2. Pledge of Allegiance
President Walker led us in the Pledge of Allegiance. He then read the Character Word of the Month in
both English and Spanish: Curious/Curioso.

3. Yakama Land Acknowledgement
A video of YSD students reciting the Land Acknowledgement was played.
4. Recognitions
Big 9 Announces the Fall NECA/IBEW Award Winners.
Director Navarro, Jr. recognized the NECA/IBEW Award recipients for fall sports: DHS
Julianna Covarrubias (soccer), DHS Jason Chavez (football), Ike Evangeline Knerr (swimming)
and Ike Judah Oldenkamp (football).
Vice President Villanueva recognized extra-curricular activities.
Pacific Northwest Marching Band Championships: Davis HS Marching Band (placed 5th overall
and 3rd place AAAA Class) under music band teachers Brian Beck & Sam Howard. Eisenhower
HS Marching Band (placed 8th) under music band teachers Jeremy Freisz & Chloe Pierce.
Northwest Association for Performing Arts, Sponsored by Kamiak High School, 10th Annual
Marching Band Show, Music In Motion (MIM): Eisenhower HS Marching Band (placed 1st)
under music band teachers Jeremy Freisz & Chloe Pierce. Davis HS Marching Band (placed 2nd
Open Class and placed 2nd overall in High and High General Effect) under music band teachers
Brian Beck & Sam Howard.
8th Annual Washington State Marching Band Championships hosted by Washington State
University: Davis HS Marching Band (placed 1st Overall and placed 2nd in High Music & AAA
Class, High Color Guard) under music band teachers Brian Beck & Sam Howard. Eisenhower
HS Marching Band (placed 5th) under music band teachers Jeremy Freisz & Chloe Pierce.
Students and teachers in attendance were presented with a certificate and thanked by the board.

5. Oath of Office for Board Members Norm Walker, Martha Rice, and Raymond Navarro Jr.
Superintendent Greene administered the oath of office to the newly re-elected board members.
B. BOARD REORGANIZATION
1. Office of Board President
Norm Walker was nominated for President.
Motion by Graciela Villanueva, second by Martha Rice. Final Resolution: Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
2. Office of Board Vice President
Graciela Villanueva was nominated for Vice President.
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Ryan Beckett. Final Resolution: Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
3. Office of WIAA Rep
Ryan Beckett was nominated for WIAA Rep.
Motion by Graciela Villanueva, second by Martha Rice. Final Resolution: Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
4. Office of Legislative Rep
Martha Rice was nominated for Legislative Rep.
Motion by Graciela Villanueva, second by Ryan Beckett. Final Resolution: Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
C. REPORTS TO THE BOARD
1. 1000.1.0 ENDS Report Goal #2 – Omar Santoy, Executive Director of Student Services
Mr. Santoy presented the ENDS report goal: to empower, connect, support, make resilient, and
engage all students, fostering habits and behaviors that enhance student voice, resilience, and
personal ownership in a safe environment. He discussed the need for board action on defining
attendance for YSD students. OSPI's definition of “regular attendance” was explained as students
enrolled for 90 days with less than 6 absences, and Skyward defines “Average Daily
Attendance” based on the average percentage of attended periods daily.
Mr. Santoy reported on two surveys: 1) Center for Educational Effectiveness (CEE) Survey: The
CEE survey determines organizational effectiveness, student engagement and motivation, socialemotional learning, as well as parent/community involvement. This survey is administered
annually. And 2) Healthy Youth Survey (HYS): The HYS focuses on health risk behaviors, such
as violence and alcohol, tobacco, and other drug use that can result in injury and impact positive
development among youth. The survey also includes questions about risk and protective factors,
which are attitudes and opinions that research has shown to be correlated with these health risk
behaviors. This survey is administered (Grades 6, 8, 10, 12) every 2 years.
2. 1000.1.0 ENDS Report Goal #1 - Hector Mendez, Executive Director of Leadership &
Accountability and Lucas Jaeger, Principal Early Learning Center
Hector Mendez, Executive Director of Leadership & Accountability introduced Lucas Jaeger,
Principal Early Learning Center, who presented on the attached presentation. Global ENDS
Report Goal #1: THE EARLY YEARS: DEVELOPING A STRONG FOUNDATION

This goal focuses on equipping students with social-emotional skills, academic curiosity, and
cognitive development in PK-3 Literacy and Numeracy to set the stage for future success.
Mr. Jaeger reported that the district is surpassing pre-pandemic rates in all areas, except literacy.
There was an average 15% growth in student preparedness compared to the previous year, with
increases ranging from 4-9% in each category. While acknowledging the district's strong
performance in early years education, he also highlighted the opportunity for further growth in
areas of development and learning.
Director Rice praised the presentation for highlighting student growth, noting the significance of
the progress given that students often start at lower levels. She inquired about Principal Jaeger's
strategies for engaging with private daycares. In response, Jaeger mentioned that ESD 105
compiles a relevant list, which he plans to use for outreach. He also shared his approach of
hosting events at schools and inviting daycare providers to attend, as well as including them in
training sessions. Furthermore, Jaeger expressed his intention to invite elementary school
principals to his school to meet the future students of their institutions.
VP Villanueva asked about the data on ethnicity - why are there so many ethnicities not
represented? Mr. Mendez said when the population is low, they do not report on it.
President Walker shared that he had the opportunity to visit the school and the classroom on
inclusion and was impressed.
D. UPDATES
1. Members of the Board Updates
Director Rice will be attending the Legislative Dinner with ESD 105 tomorrow evening.
2. Superintendent's Update
There will be 4 Levy Informational Town Hall Meetings that will be held in-person and also
virtually. OSPI reached out and asked him to be part of their AI Advisory Committee. He is also
member of the WIAA Superintendents Advisory Committee for athletics.
Anthony Murrietta, Asst Supt of Human Resources, gave an update on the Davis Auditorium and
Early Learning Center. He hesitantly shared we are on track in the next quarter for finalization.
He shared photos of the construction site. He shared photos at the construction site for the DELC
- due to the cold weather, the construction is behind a bit. He thinks this should be completed in
late spring, 2024.
3. Monthly Financial Update - Jake Kuper
Mr. Kuper highlighted that enrollment continues to decline, cash is slightly above projection, and
presented ESSER spending. His presentation is attached to BoardDocs.
4. Calendar Updates and Future Agenda Topics
There are important school events and district events listed on BoardDocs. The board reviewed
the draft agenda for the Jan 8, 2024 board retreat.

5. Comments from the Public on Agenda Items
There were no public commenters tonight.
E. CONSENT AGENDA
1. Approval of Consent Agenda
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Final Resolution: Motion carried 4/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
2. Approval of November 2023 Minutes
3. Notification of Approval of Warrants for November 2023
4. Approval of Personnel Actions
5. Budget Status Reports for November 2023
F. POLICY GOVERNANCE
1. 1000.3.4 President’s Role
VP Villanueva read this policy. Survey Monkey will be sent tomorrow and due by Wednesday,
Dec 20.
2. 1000.3.5 Board Members’ Code of Conduct
Director Rice read this policy. Survey Monkey will be sent tomorrow and due by Wednesday,
Dec 20.
3. 1000.3.6 Board Committee Principles
President Walker read this policy. Survey Monkey will be sent tomorrow and due by
Wednesday, Dec 20.
4. 1000.3.7 Board Committee Structure
President Walker read this policy. Survey Monkey will be sent tomorrow and due by
Wednesday, Dec 20.
5. Approval for Policy 1000.2.3 EL Financial Conditions and Activities
That the Board of Directors approves the rating reports for Policy 1000.2.3 EL Financial
Conditions and Activities.
Motion by Martha Rice, second by Graciela Villanueva. Motion carried 5/0.
Yea: Graciela Villanueva, Martha Rice, Raymond Navarro Jr, Norm Walker, Ryan Beckett
6. Second Opportunity for Comments from the Public - All Other
There were no comments at this time.
G. EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. Move to Executive Session
No need for an executive session tonight.

H. ADJOURNMENT
1. Adjournment
President Walker adjourned the meeting at 8:40pm.

I. INFORMATION REPORTS TO THE BOARD
1. Monthly Discipline Report
2. Enrollment Report

Norm Walker, President

Trevor Greene, Secretary to the Board

