Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Study Session Meeting Minutes August 17, 2021
Generated by Jackson Hogan
Members present: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie Deardorff, Melinda Cool, Jazzie Gonzales
  Meeting called to order at 5:31 PM
  CONVENE
1.01 Call to Order
Mr. McLaurin called the meeting to order at 5:31 PM and welcomed audience members. He also noted that the school board would continue to require face masks at meetings until further notice.
  Present from the administration were Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn, Assistant Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive Directors of Teaching & Learning Dr. Faye Britt and Kellie Larrabee, and Executive Director of Human Resources John Fairbairn.
    1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
At this time, the Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
             2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA
  2.01 Adopt Agenda
Before the agenda was adopted, Dr. Quinn requested switching items 4.01 and 4.02.
  Ms. Riddle moved to approve the agenda with the proposed changes. The motion carried unanimously.
  FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
  3.01 Introduction of New Members of the District Leadership Team
Mr. McLaurin reminded the board that after the levy failed in 2020, the school district had to cut seven administrators. But when a replacement levy passed later that year, the district began planning to fill some of those positions.
  Mr. Deebach then introduced Martina Su, the new Director of Technology. He said having a tech expert in-house, rather than contracting with outside companies, will save the district money.
  Ms. Su told the board a bit about herself and her background – including her previous career at Ste Michelle Wine Estates and her youth in Bellevue and Burlington. She said she was impressed by the district’s investment in their students, particularly in providing each student with an electronic device.
  Dr. Britt introduced Bárbara Del Mar Robles, the new Director of Equity and Inclusion. Ms. Robles shared some of her background, including working for Central Washington University. Her first goals are to immerse herself in the local community and hold focus groups and surveys to gauge locals’ needs in regards to equity, she said.
  Lastly, Dr. Quinn introduced Celina Rodriguez, the new Director of Communications and Community Engagement. Ms. Rodriguez spoke about growing up in Eastern Washington and beginning her career with Children of the Valley – a Mt. Vernon-based program that serves low-income youth. She then worked as a public information officer for Mount Vernon Schools for two years before arriving in Ferndale, she said.
  Ms. Rodriguez and Dr. Quinn also pointed out that while at Mount Vernon Schools, Ms. Rodriguez had a major role in the search process for a new superintendent. Dr. Quinn added that Ms. Rodriguez is the head of a new communications team at the district, along with Lea Morris and Jackson Hogan.
  The school board applauded the three new board members, and Mr. McLaurin said he was thrilled they chose to work in Ferndale.
  4. FOCUS ON STUDENTS
  4.01 Update on COVID-19 Health and Safety Guidelines for September
Mr. McLaurin said he wished Ferndale could restart school on Sept. 1 without any COVID-19 protocol for students, but the Delta variant has created a riskier situation. Earlier in August, Governor Jay Inslee issued a universal mask mandate for school staff and students to keep everyone safe, he added.
  Mr. Fairbairn told the board that the school district had three guiding principles for school during the pandemic: maintain the highest level of safety, provide the best education possible under the circumstances, and stay in close consultation with the Whatcom County Health Department.
  The most recent guidelines from the state stress more in-person learning and promoting vaccinations, which are the best defense against COVID-19, Mr. Fairbairn said. The week prior, Chris Reykdal – the Superintendent of Public Instruction – requested a statewide vaccine mandate for all school staff, and Mr. Fairbairn told the board it was likely Gov. Inslee would address that request during a press conference on Aug. 18.
  Some people had asked whether the mask mandate was a recommendation or a requirement, Mr. Fairbairn said. He emphasized that it was a legal requirement, and going against it would be a knowing violation of the law.
  Mr. Fairbairn then reviewed the COVID-19 safety guidelines for the upcoming school year, going into detail on quarantining rules, physical distancing and more. He added that the daily health checks that students had to undergo before each school day this spring will stop.
  One board member asked about students who may push back on mask requirements, and Mr. Fairbairn said those students are very rare. Most students in the spring were compliant with COVID-19 rules and wanted to learn in-person.
  A board member praised the district’s COVID-19 safety plan. Even though they believed some in the community would be upset by mask mandates, the board member said seeing other schools in different parts of the country with hospitalized students made them confident in Ferndale’s direction.
  4.02 Overview of MTSS (Multi-Tiered System of Supports) and UDL (Universal Design for Learning)
  Mr. McLaurin said the board had heard the terms MTSS and UDL mentioned often, but he didn’t feel he had a strong grasp on their meaning, which was the reason why he looked forward to this presentation on the topics.
  Dr. Britt introduced Karli Koning and Sara Dessert – an assistant principal at Ferndale High School and the MTSS coordinator at Custer Elementary School, respectively – and explained that last year they had helped prepare for the MTSS system in Ferndale schools.
  Ms. Koning and Ms. Desert briefly introduced themselves. Ms. Dessert said the district has instituted a team to implement the MTSS system, using coordinators with three-year, federally-funded assignments. Data shows that if there’s strategic implementation plan for a new learning system like this, more teachers will adopt it at a faster rate, she said.
  By the end of the coordinators’ three-year assignments, Ms. Dessert said she hopes all teachers will be able to access the data that will show how to best support their students.
  The board was then shown a brief video from Canadian educator Shelley Moore, about the importance of focusing on students that are the hardest to reach.
  Ms. Koning gave a definition of MTSS, which she said was giving all students what they need, when they need it. The system’s goal is to proactively remove systemic barriers that students face, so they can be successful, she added.
  The board then watched another brief video on MTSS, from Massachusetts educator Katie Novak. Ms. Novak said all students should receive the same foundational education, with additional, temporary supports if needed. She compared it to everyone needing to consistently see the dentist, while some people may need to temporarily see an orthodontist for additional oral care.
  Ms. Koning re-emphasized Ms. Novak’s points, and told the board that the previous system – in which some struggling students were pulled out of traditional class to receive intervention – led to those students missing core instruction.
  The board then watched another short video from Ms. Novak, who said it was important to not label students as being in different educational tiers.
  Ms. Koning said MTSS creates three tiers of instructional support: universal support for all students, additional support, and extra, intensive support. She and Ms. Dessert then told the board and executive team to break off into groups and create an MTSS analogy of their own.
  After a few minutes of brainstorming and discussion, board members created MTSS analogies and shared them with the group. For example, one board member compared the system to puppy vaccines: every puppy needs a few basic shots, while some need a few extra vaccines.
  One board member said they were concerned about MTSS calling an additional support for students as an “intervention,” saying the phrase implied there was something wrong. Ms. Dessert said this is why she prefers calling it “additional” or “intensified support.”
  Ms. Dessert then said core instruction should meet as many students’ needs as possible, and showed another short Shelley Moore video, which stressed that an “average student” doesn’t exist. Curriculum should be adjustable, so as many students as possible get the help they need, Ms. Moore said.
  One board member asked if this system could force teachers to create a curriculum for every single student, which would be too much work. Ms. Dessert agreed that would be overwhelming, and said the solution is to simply provide multiple options for assignments, rather than a bunch of hyper-individualized plans or a one-size-fits-all curriculum.
  Ms. Dessert also added that educators should be proactive about removing barriers to students’ education. This point was re-emphasized by a final video from Katie Novak.
  Ms. Dessert then spoke about the three different learning networks inside the brain, and how educators can engage them.
  One board member said they appreciated that MTSS and UDL allow students to learn in a variety of ways, but as an employer, they need future staffers to complete very specific tasks. Ms. Dessert said even with these flexible systems, there will be times where a student has to complete a task in one way. But educators will have given these students the tools to ask questions and seek information, so they can finish the job.
  Every school in Ferndale School District has hired deans and MTSS coordinators, and teams of staff in all schools have completed MTSS training, Ms. Dessert said.
  A board member asked about getting skeptical community members on board with these new systems. Ms. Dessert said we need to tell the community that these changes are all based on data and research, and noted that showing stats of students’ improving performance will be key. Another board member mentioned that some parents will be on board simply because their children will be visibly more engaged with their learning.
  A board member asked how the district will convince teachers who are skeptical of this new system to go along. Ms. Dessert said there will always be resisters to new programs, and speaking honestly about it is key. Dr. Quinn added that there will be an expectation for all school staff to adopt the new system.
  Mr. McLaurin thanked Ms. Dessert and Ms. Koning for the in-depth presentation, and said the district was fortunate to have them.
    5. EXECUTIVE SESSION
10.01 The board convened into executive session for approximately 30 minutes to discuss the details of an employee contract.
  Mr. McLaurin adjourned the regular session at 8:34 PM, and after a brief break, the board entered executive session.
  The Board returned to open session at 9:28 PM. Mr. McLaurin said that no action would follow the executive session.
  6. ADJOURN
The meeting was adjourned at 9:29 PM.
  ____________________________________           _________________________________
School Board President                                             School Board Secretary
     