Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes April 27, 2021
Generated by Kelly Warner
Members present: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie Deardorff,
Melinda Cool, Cuong Nguyen
Member absent: Avneet Pannu
Meeting called to order at 7:00 PM
1. CONVENE
Information: 1.01 Call to Order
Mr. McLaurin called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and welcomed online audience
members.
Present from the administration were Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn, Assistant
Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive Director of
Teaching & Learning Dr. Faye Britt, Executive Director of Teaching & Learning Kellie
Larrabee, Executive Director of Human Resources Mr. John Fairbairn and Principal of
Vista Middle School Heather Leighton.
Information: 1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
At this time, the Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
2.01 Adopt Agenda
Kevin Erickson moved to adopt the meeting agenda.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie Deardorff, Melinda
Cool
3. PUBLIC COMMENT [GC-3.3]
Information: 3.01 Receive Public Comment
Mr. McLaurin explained the format of Zoom in receiving public comment. He noted that
we did not receive any public comment prior to tonight’s meeting.
4. FOCUS ON STUDENTS
Information: 4.01 Update on Reopening School
Mr. McLaurin reminded the Board that this week we are taking a big step forward with
our reopening process. All of our K-12 students who choose to will be returning to five
days per week, full-time in-person learning beginning this Thursday, April 29. He said I
speak on behalf of the whole Board in saying we are very proud of our District staff for
making this happen. We believe it serves the best interests of the majority of our students,
but we also know it has taken tremendous effort.

Dr. Quinn thanked staff for their hard work in helping make this happen. Dr. Quinn
called on members of the Executive Team to provide an overview of the work that was
done.
Executive Director of Human Resources Mr. Fairbairn shared the community COVID
metrics. He said we are watching the community transmission rates very closely. He
reported that if there is high community transmission, we would need to go back to a
hybrid model. High community transmission is considered 200 cases per 100,000 over 2
weeks. We will follow the guidance of the health department if we get to that point.
Executive Director of Teaching & Learning Kellie Larrabee provided a brief overview of
the Academic and Student Well Being Recovery Plan, which was developed in response
to two laws, one Federal and one State. This plan is directly tied to the ability to receive
the ESSER (Elementary and Secondary Emergency Relief) funds. School Districts in
Washington State will submit a comprehensive plan on June 1 to OSPI. This will be the
first of three submissions. The first phase is submitting the plans for summer and fall
implementation, second phase is due November 2021 when they will review the student
data and effectiveness of the phase 1 strategy. The third phase is due in April 2022. We
are required to receive school board approval prior to submission. It will be presented to
the Board on May 25th.
Executive Director of Teaching & Learning Dr. Faye Britt provided an overview of what
components the District is required to describe. She said the components fall in line with
all the work that we are currently doing. The first part is the diagnostic assessment tools
that we’ll use by grade level, both academic and with student well-being. She said for
student well-being, we have been giving surveys to students to assess where they are at in
their health and well-being. In our diagnostic assessments, we have been using iReady for
K-8 for reading and math as well as all the formative assessments that go along with
grade level content. They are identifying where they need to spend more time to support
both academic and well-being in students.
Dr. Quinn and the Executive Team answered questions from the Board.
Mr. McLaurin said this Thursday all of the students who chose in-person learning will be
back in classrooms together for the first time in 13½ months. He said we are proud of our
Ferndale staff and grateful for the hard work.
Information: 4.02 Receive the Monitoring Report R-2.7 Academic Achievement: Health &
Physical Education
Dr. Quinn presented the Monitoring Report for R-2.7 Academic Achievement: Health &
Physical Education. The report will be open for discussion at the May 25 Regular School
Board Meeting.

Information: 4.03 Review the Monitoring Report for Results Policy R-2.4 Academic
Achievement: Technology
The Monitoring Report for R-2.4 Academic Achievement: Technology was given to the
board at the March 30 school board meeting. Tonight the report is open for discussion.
Lee Anne Riddle commented about what stunned her in this report is how the last 13 and
a half months have shifted how we look at this report. Dr. Kevin Erickson agreed that the
last 13 months has changed technology and its impact. Melinda Cool said one of the
things that stood out to her was the pacing of kindergarten through third grade. She
believes this year has shown that we can move at a faster pace.
The Board members will provide Mr. McLaurin with the coversheet to the monitoring
report, which will include their comments on the report. This monitoring report will be
before the Board for approval at the May 25 regular school board meeting.
5. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
Information: 5.01 Update on the addition of a Land Acknowledgement at Board Meetings &
Reading of "Anti-Land Acknowledgment" Poem by Harmony Devaney
Mr. McLaurin noted that this discussion started nearly a year ago, when Dr. Quinn and
School Board Member Jessie Deardorff initiated a conversation with the leaders of the
Lummi Nation. Since then, Vista Principal and Lummi Tribal Member Heather Leighton
has taken on the leadership role.
Vista Principal Heather Leighton provided the Board with an update on the land
acknowledgement statement. Ms. Leighton introduced Justina Joe who is the Lummi
Language and Cultural Arts teacher at Vista Middle School. Ms. Leighton asked Ms. Joe
to sing a song, which shared who the Lummi people are and where they come from.
Ms. Leighton introduced Ferndale High School student Harmony Devaney who read her
“Anti-Land Acknowledgement” poem to the Board.
The Board appreciated the incredible efforts going into this process.
Information: 5.02 Report on Capital Projects Bond
Mr. McLaurin acknowledged the Groundbreaking Ceremony that took place at Ferndale
High School earlier today.
Dr. Quinn gave an overview on the Groundbreaking Ceremony and noted that Heather
Leighton collaborated with her to plan the ceremony. The Board shared their thoughts on
the ceremony as well.
Mr. Deebach reported that there is a webcam on the Bond page of the district website.
This will allow the community to see the construction happening at the Ferndale High
School.

Information: 5.03 Update on Sponsorships and Community Donations Related to the new FHS
Project
Mr. McLaurin reminded the Board that they have talked about this topic several times,
which was initiated by the Bond Oversight Committee (BOC). He noted that at next
month meeting Bond Oversight Committee Co-Chair Anya Milton will join them to
discuss the report which is attached to BoardDocs.
Information: 5.04 Discussion of the Timeline for the New Superintendent Search
Mr. McLaurin reminded the Board that at the March meeting, the Board charged John
Fairbairn and himself to do some research to develop a timeline and get a sample Request
for Proposals from search firms who want to work with the Board in this process.
Mr. Fairbairn provided the Board with an overview of the draft timeline. The Board will
review the draft timeline and request any necessary changes. The timeline will be added
to the May 11 special meeting for the Board’s consideration.
6. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
Action: 6.01 Accept the Constructability Review Report and Implementation Plan
Mr. McLaurin noted that the Constructability Report and Implementation Plan are
requirements for us to receive state matching funds. He called on Mr. Deebach to provide
an overview of the report.
Assistant Superintendent of Business and Support Services Mr. Deebach said the
approval of the construct ability review is a state requirement order to receive state
matching funds. He said is it very similar to the value engineering process that went on
early in the design where the contractors got together to look at ways to save money. He
said that they look at the complete set of design documents plans and see if there are any
conflicts or any issues with actually being able to construct the building. He said it is
designed to make sure you get the lowest bid and do not get a lot of change orders. He
said they went through every little detail looking for ways to become more efficient and
make sure that we avoid any conflict.
Washington State mandates that school districts complete a constructability review for all
school construction over 50,000 square feet (WAC 392-343-080). Per OSPI, the goal of a
constructability review is to achieve the lowest possible bid and minimize the chances of
change orders and claims after construction begins. The process includes review of the
specifications and drawings to identify potential errors, ambiguities, omissions,
discrepancies, and conflicts.
Lee Anne Riddle moved to accept the Constructability Review Report and
Implementation Plan
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie Deardorff, Melinda
Cool
7. SHARING [GC-7.E.]

Information: 7.01 Student Board Members
Cuong informed the Board he has been busy working on his Thoughtexchange project.
He thought the Groundbreaking Ceremony was amazing. He shared his thoughts on the
ceremony.
Information: 7.02 Elected Board Members
Lee Anne Riddle reminded the Board about the WSSDA Regional Meeting on May 6 at
6:00pm via Zoom.
Mr. McLaurin shared news about his wife after her kidney donation surgery.
Information: 7.03 Superintendent
Dr. Quinn reminded the Board that the next meeting will be an in-person meeting. We
will use the Mountain View Library on May 11. Dr. Quinn also provided some
information to the Board about graduation.
Information: 7.04 Executive Administration
None
8. SUPERINTENDENT CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Action: 8.01 All administrative matters delegated to the superintendent that are required to be
approved by the Board will be acted upon by the Board via the consent agenda.
Melinda Cool moved to accept the superintendent consent agenda. Motion carried.
Action: 8.02 Authorize the 2021-2022 Northwest ESD 189 Legal Services Cooperative
Authorized the 2021-2022 Northwest ESD 189 Legal Services Cooperative as attached
hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action: 8.03 Revise and Adopt Administrative Policies
Revised and Adopted Administrative Policies 2418 Waiver of High School Graduation
Credits, 2190 Highly Capable Programs and 2410 High School Graduation Requirements
as attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action: 8.04 Authorize Vouchers
Authorized Voucher Transmittals:
GENERAL FUND
Vouchers 282123-282219, 282230-282309 & 282329 in the amount of $732,859.27.
GENERAL FUND PAYROLL
Warrants 477786-477805 dated March 31, 2021 in the amount of $1,504,148.65; and
electronic deposits in the amount of $2,271,480.10 for a total of $4,657,519.99.
CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND
Vouchers 282220-282221 & 282310-282312 in the amount of $563,117.78.
A.S.B. FUND

Vouchers 282222-282229 & 282313-282327 in the amount of $19,841.36.
PPT FUND
Voucher 282328 in the amount of $45.97.
TRANSPORTATION/VEHICLE FUND
No April warrants
Action: 8.05 Accept March 2021 Fund Balance Financial Statements
Accepted the March 2021 Fund Balance Financial Statements, as attached hereto and
made part of the minutes.
Action: 8.06 Approve Hiring of Personnel
Approved the hiring of personnel, per the list attached hereto and made a part of the
minutes.
Action: 8.07 Authorize Leave of Absences
Approved leave of absences, per the list attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action: 8.08 Accept Resignations and Retirements
Approved the resignations and retirements per the list attached hereto and made a part of
the minutes.
9. BOARD CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Action: 9.01 The Board will use a consent agenda as a means to expedite the disposition of
routine matters and dispose of other items of business it chooses not to discuss.
Melinda Cool moved to accept the board’s consent agenda with the exception of agenda
item 9.03 Approve the Monitoring Report for OE-3 Relationship with the Community
which will be removed. Motion carried.
Action: 9.02 Approve Minutes
Approved minutes of March 30 Regular School Board meeting and April 13 Special
School Board Meeting, as attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action: 9.03 Approve the Monitoring Report for OE-3 Relationship with the Community
This item was removed from the consent agenda. It will be on the May 25 regular school
board meeting agenda.
Action: 9.04 Review Board of Directors' Budget
Reviewed the year-to-date Board of Directors' Budget as of March 31, 2021, as attached
hereto and made part of the minutes.
10. EXECUTIVE SESSION
10.01 The board will convene into Executive Session for approximately 45 minutes to discuss
(1) a personnel matter, (2) a real estate matter and (3) upcoming contract negotiations with

several employee groups. There will be no action taken during the session. The board will
reconvene into open session and take action on an item.
The Board convened into Executive session at 8:43 pm.
11. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
Action: 11.01 Termination of Employment
At 9:22 pm, the Board reconvened into open session.
Lee Anne Riddle moved to terminate the employment of Andrew Andrusenko
immediately.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie Deardorff, Melinda
Cool
12. ADJOURN
The meeting was adjourned at 9:25 pm.

___________________________________

___________________________________

School Board President

School Board Secretary

