Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes January 26, 2021
Generated by Kelly Warner
Members present: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Melinda Cool, Jessie Deardorff, Lee
Anne Riddle, Avneet Pannu, Cuong Nguyen
Note: Jessie Deardorff joined the Zoom webinar at 7:27 PM due to technical difficulties.
Meeting called to order at 7:00 PM
1. CONVENE
Information: 1.01 Call to Order
Mr. McLaurin called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and welcomed online audience
members.
Information: 1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
At this time, special guest Gideon Carillo who is a 5th grade student at Cascadia
Elementary School recited the Pledge of Allegiance
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
Action: 2.01 Adopt Agenda
Dr. Kevin Erickson moved to adopt the meeting agenda.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Melinda Cool, Lee Anne Riddle
3. PUBLIC COMMENT [GC-3.3]
Information: 3.01 Acknowledge National School Board Recognition Month
Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn led the acknowledgement of National School Board
Recognition Month.
Videos of students in action were presented. The videos included 4th grade students at
Skyline Elementary School demonstrating their rhythmic skill in Ms. Bianco’s music
class, a sneak peek clip from FHS Theater’s upcoming play Little Women, and 5th grade
students at Central Elementary School reciting a poem about the School Board. City
Council member Erin Gunter shared words of appreciation on behalf of the City of
Ferndale. Lastly, Dr. Quinn shared a digital copy of a Shutterfly book created for the
School Board members, which recaps the year 2020.
Information: 3.02 Receive Public Comment
Mr. Andrew McLaurin reminded audience members that in past Zoom meetings, we have
read aloud the comments we received in advance. However, Board members have
received many emails (30-40 pages of responses) on the topic of bringing secondary
students back into classrooms, and it is not feasible to read them all aloud. Mr. McLaurin
said we will refer to them as part of our discussion of reopening plans, which is the next
item on the agenda.
1

4. FOCUS ON STUDENTS
Information: 4.01 Update on Reopening School
Mr. McLaurin asked Dr. Quinn and the Executive team to summarize the plans on
bringing our students back into school.
Dr. Quinn reminded the board that the work started last summer with the reopening task
force. At that time, the plan agreed on by the 80 members of the community was a hybrid
model at both the elementary and the secondary level. There are 3 basic principles (1)
safety of our staff and students, (2) doing as much education as we can in the best way
we can and still maintain safety of students and staff and (3) work in conjunction with the
local Whatcom County Health Department.
Dr. Quinn reminded the board that they approved the reopening plan at a special meeting
on August 18. Dr. Quinn said shortly before that on August 4, the health department
suggested that all schools in Whatcom County put a pause on returning to in-person
learning based on the community spread of the virus. She reminded the board that they
agreed with that guidance and decided to put the plan away to use at a different date once
we receive the OK from the health department. Dr. Quinn said since then a lot has
happened including more research, more data and evidence on transmission. The way that
we look at the metrics has changed based on how the health department is looking at the
metrics. In the final analysis, we received guidance that said the community spread of the
virus are not the metrics we should look at for determining when to open schools.
Schools have been able to operate without transmission of the virus because of the
district’s very stringent safety and mitigation protocols.
Dr. Quinn reminded the Board that on December 16, Governor Inslee held a press
conference urging all school districts to make plans to return kids to school and work
with the local health department. A day or so after that, the Whatcom County
superintendents met with Dr. Stern from the Whatcom County Health Department. Dr.
Stern recommended beginning expanding in-person learning to include secondary
students. Dr. Quinn said the week of January 4, the administrative team met to go over
that plan. On January 8, Dr. Quinn informed staff and family that the plan is to return to
in-person learning for secondary students on February 1 in a hybrid-model.
Dr. Quinn reminded the Board that the district sent a survey before winter break to
families to see whether they would participate in in-person learning or remain remote.
20% of students at the secondary level chose to stay in remote learning. That data helped
the administrative team develop the schedule for in-person learning and bus routes.
About 40% of the students will be on campus for hybrid AA/BB model. Dr. Quinn said
now that she has seen how our protocols have worked with the elementary level she
knows that our mitigation strategies are working. Dr. Stern and the Whatcom Health
Department said we are no longer looking at the threshold numbers in the community. To
this date, we have not have evidence of a single transmission of the virus in our schools.
Dr. Quinn said Executive Director of Human Resources John Fairbairn and his team have
done a great job of contract tracing and symptom tracking.

2

Executive Director of Human Resources John Fairbairn said they have been listening to
staff concerns and answering questions as they come in.
Executive Director of Teaching and Learning Dr. Faye Britt provided an overview of the
remote learning and hybrid model schedules for the middle and high school students.
Executive Director of Teaching and Learning Kellie Larrabee informed the Board of the
positive feedback received from elementary staff and administrators regarding how nice
it is to have smaller groups of students in the cohorts and the ability for teachers and
students to connect at a different level.
The Board discussed the reopening plan and asked questions regarding hybrid and remote
learning plan models, staff training, contact tracing and safety protocols.
The Board agreed that they are comfortable moving forward with the plan put into
motion for returning secondary students to in-person learning on February 1.
Information: 4.02 Receive the Monitoring Report for Results Policy R-2.3 Academic
Achievement: Science
Mr. McLaurin reminded audience members that the Board has about 40 governance
policies in four categories. One category is a collection of policies that we call our
Results Policies. They define what we want our students to achieve. As an accountability
measure, the Board regularly monitors how well the Superintendent and her team are
implementing our policies. He said for this purpose, we ask them to provide us with
Monitoring Reports according to a pre-arranged schedule.
Dr. Quinn presented the Monitoring Report for R-2.3 Academic Achievement: Science.
The Board will discuss the Results Policy R-2.3 at the March Regular School Board
meeting.
5. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
5.01 Report on Capital Projects Bond
Mr. Deebach said the first 17 bid packages were advertised today. All the bid packages
will be due on February 23 with exception of the structural bid which will be due on
February 24. Cornerstone is handling 16 of the bid packages on the 23rd but the one on
the 24th we will manage with CSG because Cornerstone is planning on bidding on the
structural work. We are looking at a May start date which is getting close. Mr. Deebach
said other good news is that we are continuing to close out the smaller capital
maintenance projects that were part of the bond. This Friday we will publish the
advertisement for proposals on the HVAC controls in our buildings. There will be a bid
opening on February 18 for those projects as well.
Mr. McLaurin noted that the Bond Oversight Committee continues to be a big part of the
discussion about the plans. They ask a lot of good questions and offer suggestions and
guidance. He said that there were changes made to purchasing items such as the
scoreboard and other things like that. The Bond Oversight Committee asked about the
3

process and opportunity for us to approach local businesses for support or contribution of
certain items. Mr. McLaurin said this will be brought up for further discussion at the next
meeting in February.
Mr. McLaurin reminded audience members that Dr. Quinn publishes a weekly Bond
Update and people may contact the district to subscribe.
5.02 Ferndale High School Value Engineering Study - Board Acceptance
Mr. McLaurin asked Assistant Superintendent of Business and Support Services Mr.
Mark Deebach to explain the Ferndale High School Value Engineering Study, which is
attached to BoardDocs.
Mr. Deebach said in spring of 2020 the district went through the value engineering
process. He said it is a requirement to receive state match dollars that we go through a
value engineering process as part of the project. That entails consultants and experts to
come in and comb through the designs to find opportunities to save money and get a
better value, etc. He said it is an extensive process that is required in order to receive the
state matching funds. As part of the process, the Board has to sign off on the value
engineering report, which is attached to BoardDocs.
Lee Anne Riddle moved to accept the Ferndale High school Value Engineering Study as
attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Melinda Cool, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff
6. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
6.01 Reorganization of the School Board for 2021
Annually, at its December meeting, the school board elects a president and vice president
to serve the following year. This item was postponed from the December 15 Regular
Board meeting due to an absent board member.
Mr. McLaurin entertained nominations and motions for the offices.
Lee Anne Riddle recommended that we continue with Andrew McLaurin as president
and Kevin Erickson as vice president for this next year.
There was no discussion. By roll call vote, motion carried 5-0.
6.02 Review the Monitoring Report for Operational Expectations Policy 8 (OE-8)
Communication with the Board
Mr. McLaurin opened the item up for discussion.
Lee Anne Riddle commented that this is a lot of work but she is thankful to Dr. Quinn for
doing the work. She said it has reinforced for her why we are doing this. Ms. Riddle
recommends that people read the monitoring reports because they have so much
information in them. She found that the report was very thorough. She said while she did
4

not find it compliant in every area that was mostly because of COVID getting in the way
of some of this work.
Jessie Deardorff said that she appreciated Dr. Quinn being forthcoming and meeting with
the Lummi Education Board to keep the conversations going. She appreciates Dr. Quinn
talking with the Lummi Tribe about what their expectations are on communication.
Andrew McLaurin echoed what Ms. Riddle said about the tremendous amount of work
that goes into the report and agreed that it is very thorough. He also appreciates the
weekly updates to the Board from Dr. Quinn.
Melinda Cool agrees with Ms. Riddle and Mr. McLaurin and is thankful that we are
getting back to these reports. Ms. Cool asked how data will be collected for the next year
of reports because of COVID. She is wondering how we will handle that. Dr. Quinn said
that there is always some data that can be collected and to read the R-2.3 report that we
presented tonight to see how we approached that.
Kevin Erickson said he appreciates the communication that has been done during the
pandemic and reinventing how communication has been given to the Board. He
appreciates the honesty of the report. It points out areas that we need to work on
improving. He also encouraged people to read the reports to see what is being done
because there is a lot done behind the scenes that people are not aware of.
Dr. Quinn noted that we are committed to making a place on the website where people
can find the monitoring reports easily and understand what they are.
7. SHARING [GC-7.E.]
7.01 Student Board Members
Cuong noted that Avneet had to leave the meeting early for a college interview and
informed audience members that she is working on the Ferndale Care Closet where
students can get snacks and items they need.
Cuong said he is working on a project to increase student voice. Cuong said he met with
Dr. Quinn and found a way that they could utilize Thoughtexchange to gather student
insights. Cuong believes this project will encourage students be more active in voicing
their opinion.
7.02 Elected Board Members
None
7.03 Superintendent
Dr. Quinn shared that she had a great meeting with Cuong and Avneet last night on Zoom
and they are working on some projects. She also noted that she wrote profiles of each of
the Board members, which were posted on Facebook this month for School Board
Appreciation Month.
5

7.04 Executive Administration
Executive Director of Human Resources John Fairbairn said as a building principal he
always appreciated what the Board has done and now that he has been sitting in this chair
for a couple of years his appreciation has doubled. He is very thankful for the work that
they do on behalf of the community. He thanked them for their service.
8. SUPERINTENDENT CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Action (Consent) 8.01 All administrative matters delegated to the superintendent that are
required to be approved by the Board will be acted upon by the Board via the consent agenda.
Lee Anne Riddle moved to accept the superintendent consent agenda. Motion carried.
Action (Consent) 8.02 Authorize Vouchers
Authorized Voucher Transmittals:
GENERAL FUND
Vouchers 281472-281483, 281488, 281489-281580, 281595-281668 & 281687 in the
amount of $878,628.76.
GENERAL FUND PAYROLL
Warrants 477724-477743 dated December 31, 2020 in the amount of $1,443,120.20; and
electronic deposits in the amount of $2,830,723.27 for a total of $4,273,843.47.
CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND
Vouchers 281484-281487, 281581-281583 & 281669-281678 in the amount of
$962,141.27. In addition, December warrant dated 12/18/20 for $438,499.94
A.S.B. FUND
Vouchers 281584-281594 & 281679-281686 in the amount of $16,365.12
PPT FUND
No January warrants
TRANSPORTATION/VEHICLE FUND
No January warrants
Action (Consent) 8.03 Approve Hiring of Personnel
Approved the hiring of personnel, per the list attached hereto and made a part of the
minutes.
Action (Consent) 8.04 Accept Resignations and Retirements
Approved resignations and retirements per the list attached hereto and made a part of the
minutes.
Action (Consent) 8.05 Termination of Employees
Approved Termination of Employee as discussed during the executive session at the
December 15, 2020 school board meeting.
6

Action (Consent) 8.06 Authorize Leave of Absences
Approved leave of absences, per the list attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action (Consent) 8.07 Authorize Personal Services and Supplemental Contracts
Approved Personal and Supplemental contracts for January 2021, per the list attached
hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action (Consent) 8.08 Adopt Resolution No. 1-2021 Canceling Warrants
Adopted Resolution No. 1-2021 canceling General Fund warrant numbered 280974,
281103, and 281237, and Capital Projects Fund warrant numbered 281349, as attached
hereto and made part of the minutes.
Action (Consent) 8.09 Accept December 2020 Fund Balance Financial Statements
Accepted the December 2020 Fund Balance Financial Statements, as attached hereto and
made part of the minutes.
9. BOARD CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Action (Consent) 9.01 The Board will use a consent agenda as a means to expedite the
disposition of routine matters and dispose of other items of business it chooses not to discuss.
Lee Anne Riddle moved to accept the board consent agenda. Motion carried
Action (Consent) 9.02 Approve Minutes
Approved minutes of December 15, 2020 regular meeting and December 15, 2020 special
meeting, as attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action (Consent) 9.03 Review Board of Directors' Budget
Reviewed the year-to-date Board of Directors' Budget as of December 31, 2020, as
attached hereto and made part of the minutes.
10. EXECUTIVE SESSION
10.01 Information
At 8:32 p.m., the Board convened into Executive Session for approximately 45 minutes
to discuss the terms of the superintendent's contract. Mr. McLaurin announced that there
would be no action taken during or following the session.
11. ADJOURN
At 9:18 p.m., the Board reconvened into open session and immediately adjourned.

____________________________________
School Board President

_________________________________
School Board Secretary

7

