HOOD CANAL SCHOOL DISTRICT
REGULAR BOARD OF EDUCATION MEETING
Thursday, March 28, 2024
  Meeting Minutes
    1. Opening Items
Members Present: Edie Reclusado, Annie Robbins, Jimmy Harris, Kimberly Miller and Paul Thompson.
  Staff Present: Lance Gibbon, Superintendent; Jeanie Beebe, Director of Finance and Operations; Steven Torres, Principal; Susan Vining, Recording Secretary.
  Call to Order: Ms. Reclusado, Board Chair, called the meeting to order at 5:16pm in the Hood Canal School Gym.
  2. Revision and Approval of Agenda
Ms. Robbins made a motion to move Item 11: Board Comments after Item 8: Superintendent Report. Mr. Harris seconded. All in favor, motion carried.
  3. Consent Agenda
Vouchers audited and certified by the auditing officer as required by RCW 42.24.080, and those expense reimbursement claims certified as required by RCW 42.24.090, have been recorded on a listing, which have been made available to the Board.
  Ms. Robbins made a motion to approve the consent agenda. Mr. Thompson seconded. All in favor, motion carried.
  4. Audience Comments
There were no audience comments.
  5. Personnel Addendum
Mr. Thompson made a motion to approve the personnel addendum. Mr. Harris seconded. All were in favor, motion carried.
  6. Board of Education Report
Updates on:
Bond/Long-Range Facilities Next Steps
Small Schools Conference Report
  7. Finance and Operations Report
The Board reviewed student enrollment and they were provided with a detailed report of the district financials for all funds through the month of February. The funds were in balance and the district continues to be in a financially stable condition.
  8. Superintendent Report
Presentations:
Highly Capable Program by Melanie Lankford
Algebra I course offering by Suzanne Close
  9. Board Comments
Ms. Robbins recognized Melanie Lankford for the return of the Scholastic Book Fair.
  10. Action Items
Mr. Harris made a motion for a roll call vote on Item D: Superintendent Contract Extension separately. Mr. Thompson seconded. All in favor, motion carried.
  Mr. Thompson made a motion to approve the following items:
A. Highly Capable Plan & Handbook
B. New Course Approval: Algebra I
C. Board Policies
Policy 1331 Board Operating Principles (NEW) (Discretionary)
Procedure 1620P The Board-Superintendent Relationship (Discretionary)
Policy 5005 Employment and Volunteers: disclosures, Certification Requirements, Assurances and Approval (Essential)
Policy 5271 Reporting Improper Governmental Action (Whistleblower Protection) (Essential)
Policy 6550 Capitalization Threshold for Leases and Subscription-Based Information Technology Arrangements (SBITAs) (Encouraged)
Mr. Harris seconded. All in favor, motion carried.
  Action: D. Superintendent Contract Extension
Mr. Harris made a motion to approve the superintendent's contract extension. Mr. Thompson seconded.
  Roll Call Vote: Ms. Miller - yea; Mr. Harris - yea; Mr. Thompson - yea; Ms. Robbins - yea; Ms. Reclusado - yea. All in favor, motion carried unanimously.
  11. Future Dates
Future board meeting dates were discussed as stated on the agenda.
  12. Executive Session
No executive session was held.
  13. Adjournment
Mr. Thompson made a motion to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Harris seconded. All in favor, motion carried. The meeting was adjourned at 7:14pm.