HOOD CANAL SCHOOL DISTRICT
REGULAR BOARD OF EDUCATION MEETING
Thursday, September 26, 2024
  Meeting Minutes
      1. Opening Items
Members Present: Annie Robbins, Jimmy Harris and Paul Thompson. Edie Reclusado and Kimberly Miller were absent and excused.
  Staff Present: Lance Gibbon, Superintendent; Jeanie Beebe, Director of Finance and Operations; Steven Torres, Principal; and Susan Vining, Recording Secretary.
  Call to Order: Annie Robbins, Vice-Chair, called the meeting to order at 5:16pm in the Hood Canal School Library.
  2. Revision and Approval of Agenda
Ms. Robbins requested the addition of Action Item H: Nature Bridge Overnight Field Trip. Mr. Harris made a motion to approve the agenda as revised. Mr. Thompson seconded. All were in favor, motion passed.
  3. Consent Agenda
Vouchers audited and certified by the auditing officer as required by RCW 42.24.080, and those expense reimbursement claims certified as required by RCW 42.24.090, have been recorded on a listing, which have been made available to the Board.
  Mr. Harris made a motion to approve the consent agenda. Mr. Thompson seconded. All were in favor, motion passed.
  4. Audience Comments
There were no audience comments.
  5. Personnel Addendum
Mr. Harris made a motion to approve the Personnel Addendum. Mr. Thompson seconded. All were in favor, motion passed.
  6. Board of Education Report
Mr. Harris reminded the board that he would need their top 10 picks from the WSSDA legislative positions list. He will consolidate their choices as each school board receives one vote. 
  7. Finance and Operations Report
The Board was provided with a detailed report of the district financials for all funds through the month of August. The funds were in balance and the district continues to be in a financially stable condition.
  8. Superintendent Report
Dr. Gibbon updated the Board on:
Start of the school year
Professional development schedule for October 11th
Meeting for the Strategic Plan - next meeting is scheduled for October 29th
WSPA Law Conference | October 14th - 15th and AI Innovation Summit | October 16th - 18th
  9. Action Item
Mr. Thompson made a motion for a roll call vote on Item B and all other action items as a package. Mr. Harris seconded. All were in favor, motion passed.
  Mr. Thompson made a motion to approve the following:
A. Superintendent Goals 2024-25
C. BOOTS Overnight Field Trip | Lower Skokomish S Fork | Oct 30th - Nov 1st
D. BOOTS Overnight Field Trip | Cispus Learning Center | January 22nd - 24th
E. BOOTS Overnight Field Trip | Lower Skokomish S Fork | March 19th - 21st
F. BOOTS Overnight Field Trip | Cape Alava | June 4th - 6th
G. BOOTS Overnight Field Trip | Erickson's Bay | June 24th - 27th
H. Nature Bridge Overnight Field Trip | November 12th - 14th
Mr. Harris seconded. All were in favor, motion passed.
  Mr. Harris made a motion to approve:
B. Approve the selection of Bassetti Architects for Hood Canal School District, pending contract negotiations.
Mr. Thompson - Yea     Mr. Harris - Yea     Ms. Robbins - Yea
All were in favor, motion passed.
  10. Future Dates
The future board meeting dates were discussed as stated on the agenda.
  11. Board Comments
Ms. Robbins received compliments from the community for the annual report and recognized Dr. Gibbon for his hard work on the report.
  12. Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 5:59pm.