EASTMONT SCHOOL DISTRICT

Every Student: Competent, Confident, and Compassionate

509.884.7169 ● WWW.EASTMONT206.ORG
800 EASTMONT AVE. ● EAST WENATCHEE, WA 98802

BOARD OF DIRECTORS
SPECIAL MEETING
AGENDA
Monday, December 2, 2024
5:30 p.m.

Eastmont Administration Office
The Eastmont School District is governed by a board of five directors. The Eastmont Board of Directors sets the
direction of the District by establishing goals, objectives, and policies to guide the superintendent who supervises all
programs and staff. The Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that the Eastmont School District is adequately
financed to meet those goals, objectives, and policies; for monitoring the progress of the District; and for evaluating the
performance of the superintendent. Each board member has a fiduciary role to the District and, as such is responsible
for using his or her best judgment in conducting the affairs of the District.
The Board generally meets at 5:30 p.m. on the second and fourth Monday of each month at either a school site or the
Administration Office Board Room at 800 Eastmont Avenue, East Wenatchee. On holidays, or when a conflict occurs,
a meeting may be held at an alternate time and/or date with proper notification given to the media.
The complete 2024-25 Board Meeting Schedule is available at www.eastmont206.org under the About Us/School
Board tab.

NOTICE is hereby given that the Eastmont School District No. 206 Board of Directors,
Douglas County, Washington will hold a Special Meeting on Monday, December 2, 2024
beginning at 5:30 p.m. at Eastmont Administration Office Board Room, 800 Eastmont
Avenue, East Wenatchee for the purpose of considering and acting upon the following
agenda items:
I.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
An executive session will be held to discuss the performance of an employee.
The executive session will last 20 minutes with no action taken during it. Action
is anticipated following the executive session.

II.

ACTION ITEM
A. Personnel Items — Meaghan Vibbert, Board President

III.

ADJOURNMENT

11/27/2024;

Page 1 of 1

