Blaine School District No. 503
  Regular Board Meeting
Monday, April 24, 2023
  Minutes
  1. Regular Board Meeting
A. Call to Order
President Thomas called the meeting to order, in the district boardroom, at 7:00 p.m.

All directors were in attendance.
     Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  B. Pledge of Allegiance
President Thomas led in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  C. Board Comments on the Agenda
Due to the large number of audience attendees, President Thomas recommended that the meeting be recessed after the Student Report item and then reconvened after 15 minutes in the Performing Arts Center.
  The board voted in favor of this recommendation.
Motion by Erika Creydt, second by Charles E Gibson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu

Director Creydt asked if the board would have an opportunity to discuss updates to Procedure 3205P Sexual Harassment of Students Prohibited. Dr. Granger affirmed that the directors could ask questions when he brings it up during his report, and he reminded her that procedures do not require board action.
  2. Good News
A. Teacher Appreciation Week
The Board of Directors acknowledged Teacher Appreciation Week which will be observed by the district May 8-12. Dr. Granger expressed the district's appreciation for those certificated professionals who provide Blaine students with quality learning opportunities.
  B. High School Student Report
Blaine High School Closet Club members Prabhji Kaur, Baleigh Meyer, Arleth Lazo, Logan Tax, and Prabnoor Kaur shared information about their group's purpose and activities. Donated clothing is available for any student for any situation, whether it be something needed at the last minute on a school day or formal wear for a dance. In addition to clothing, accessories, and shoes, students have access to beauty and hygiene supplies as well as hair accessories. Hundreds of items have been used by students so far this year. Volunteers earn community service hours toward their graduation requirement, and they also get first pick of clothing items. A clothing drive promotional video was presented, followed by discussion with audience members regarding how to make donations. The student presenters indicated that the clothing items worn by each of them at the meeting all came from the closet and had been selected in 15 minutes.

President Thomas commended the club for their awesome work and their advisor, Ann Balfour, gave special commendation to this year's club leaders.
  3. Public Comment
At 7:08 p.m., President Thomas announced that the meeting would recess for 15 minutes and would resume at 7:23 p.m. in the Performing Arts Center.
  A. Public Comment
At 7:23 p.m., the meeting resumed in the Performing Arts Center. The following individuals addressed the board regarding topics of concern:
Susan St. Claire described her family's long history in the Blaine community. She accused the district's current leadership of mismanagement, of overestimating enrollment projections, and of receiving and spending unearned enrollment revenue that must be paid back to the state. She further commented on the loss of teachers and support staff, and she criticized the board for giving the superintendent a pay raise and contract extension.
Tiffany Udman, a Blaine teacher and parent, stated that she is uncertain whether she will continue her teaching career in Blaine. She commented on the Blaine Education Association's analysis of the district's finances which shows a significant reserve. Ms. Udman shared additional concerns regarding employee and student culture in the district, and she accused the district's leadership of irresponsible budgeting and of giving misleading information.
Kristanie Ulrich, a constituent and former Blaine teacher, stated that she is baffled by the district's lack of accountability. She referenced her comments to the board in August 2021 when she expressed concern about where the district was headed. She stated that her concerns have now been validated, and she asked the board to open their eyes to the unsafe school environment in Blaine which will get worse with less social emotional support for students. She stated that their family is researching alternative educational opportunities for their child, and even a school board member has chosen to send their students elsewhere.
Betsy Sutton, a Blaine teacher, described her K-5 reading intervention work and expressed concern that the district is not putting students first. She shared a quote from the National School Board Association regarding  equity in education, and commented that the district can only reach "Each student. Each day." with all of us.
Jodi Greene, school nurse, provided data on the extensive student health services that have been provided to students this year. Next year, only one nurse will be available for students on certain days of the week. Because of the excessively high need for health services among Blaine students, Ms. Greene stated that the district is already short on nursing staff and should be increasing those services instead of cutting them.
Isabelle Witt, Blaine High School student, commented on the district's plan to fire teachers. She stated that teachers don't teach for the money, and the teachers on the list to be fired are the ones she feels safe to talk to. Those teachers really make a difference, and she wants to become a teacher herself one day.
Natalie Chavez, community member, commented on what she has been hearing at past board meetings. The district has known for a long time that a budget deficit was coming. She further commented on the low kindergarten enrollment level, and asked what the district would do to serve and protect kids. In particular, she asked what the district will do when the next pandemic comes. She shared additional comments about the Department of Defense's use of pandemic data and the COVID vaccine that has been pushed on students.
Ella Vining, Blaine High School student, commented on educators who are being let go. She suggested that the district lay off their social media person instead. She described how teachers positively impact students' mental health, and she gave examples of connections she has made with teachers who make her feel safe.
Dan Persse, a Blaine resident and teacher for more than 27 years, referenced the independent financial analysis of district finances done by the Blaine Education Association. He commented on past 4-year budget projections that did not come to fruition, and accused the district's leadership of not knowing how to forecast and manage finances. He stated that the district's low enrollment doesn't actually matter, the BEA's analysis doesn't show a financial crisis, and it makes no sense to get rid of 19% of district staff.
Ben Lazarus, a Point Roberts parent, commented on the importance of artistic opportunities for students. In the arts programs, many students find community and a sense of belonging. He stated that the district needs more than a bare-bones band program, and cuts should not be made in the arts program.
President Thomas thanked the members of the public who shared comments.
  4. Reports
A. School Administrator Reports
Each school administrator reviewed their monthly report to the board.
Blaine Primary School: Principal Michelle McKeown reported. An Earth Day flower planting activity was coordinated with the high school's horticulture class. Second grade students participated in walking and bowling field trips. Mrs. Thomas' class made animal masks. Teachers from Norway visited the school for a demonstration of math instruction. Michelle Schulz led a student theater performance for retiring Blaine Police Officer Jon Landis. In recognition of Occupational Therapists month, Ms. McKeown expressed her appreciation for the support they provide to primary school students.
Blaine Elementary School: Principal Jordan Radke reported. Fifth grade students once again attended Mountain School. Mrs. Marshall's class visited the high school's engineering classroom to learn about opportunities they can look forward to in future years. The school's SIP team will attend a workshop at the NWESD in May for planning and data review. Mr. Radke also thanked the school's OT staff. He described plans for the upcoming 5th Grade Science Night where students will present their science projects.
Blaine Middle School: Principal Darren Benson reported. The school's leadership class planned and organized a field trip to Olympia to learn about civic leadership. He described improvements to science instruction, and described staff support provided on the April 17 late start day.
Blaine High School: Principal Scott Ellis reported. Student led conferences were held for the first time since the pandemic. Link Crew student leaders were recognized, and Mr. Ellis explained their purpose in helping new freshman students feel welcome. High school staff reviewed student survey data on the April 17 late start day to develop long and short term goals. Staff also enjoyed pizza, cake and drinks on that day. He encouraged attendance at the school's drama performance.
  B. Enrollment Update
Executive Director of Finance and Operations Amber Porter reported to the board on enrollment through the month of April. Overall enrollment has decreased by approximately 12 FTE since March, and is more than 50 FTE below the budgeted level. If enrollment remains stable for the rest of this year, the final 10-month average will be close to this level. Ms. Porter described the typical method of estimating enrollment for budget planning and explained her intent to project more conservatively for next year, particularly for kindergarten. Director Creydt asked about the projections referenced by Dan Persse. Ms. Porter explained that the variables over the past few years have been significant. Although the district's enrollment is now 8.5% lower than pre-pandemic levels, the district is staffed at that same rate as pre-pandemic times. There had been hope that enrollment would return to where it was before the pandemic, but it has not and the district must adjust staffing according to its new enrollment level. Ms. Porter acknowledged the huge challenge in adjusting to the district's lower enrollment. In planning for this adjustment, efforts have been ongoing to save as much as possible. The federal stimulus funding provided a rare opportunity for the district to save revenue for the purpose of sustaining programs as much as possible. Director Creydt asked if all stimulus funds have been collected, and discussion continued regarding expectations for additional stimulus funding.
  C. Budget Status and Financial Report
Amber Porter provided a report on revenue and expenses through the month of March. In the General Fund, expenditures exceeded revenues. The fund balance for March was approximately $5.5M with property tax revenue expected for April. Ms. Porter pointed out the spike in revenue related to the large payment of federal stimulus money, and President Thomas asked about the projected ending fund balance in August. The current year started with a higher fund balance, and the adopted budget plan spends down the savings over the course of the fiscal year. Ms. Porter projects there will be in excess of $3.7M by the end of August. She described efforts underway to identify savings throughout the current school year, and she expressed optimism about the future. Director Creydt asked when the remaining $900K of federal stimulus money will be collected. Ms. Porter explained that it will be spread out over the remainder of the year and will not represent another large revenue spike. Ms. Porter added that the timing of the district's receipt of stimulus funds has allowed the district to earn over $20K in interest.
  D. Superintendent's Report
Dr. Christopher Granger provided an update which included information on the following topics.
The Facility Review Committee is continuing to work on a recommendation for an upcoming bond or levy.
Dr. Granger met with five student representatives participating in the April 24 walkout, and they have agreed to meet with him again in the coming weeks in the hope of creating a Student Superintendent Advisory Committee.
The Equity Committee is working on vision development.
The district is continuing to review Birch Bay property options, including the challenge of mitigating wetlands.
The state's legislative session ended late yesterday, and Dr. Granger thanked Representative Alicia Rule for her advocacy on behalf of the district's transitional kindergarten program. Results of the legislative session are being reviewed.
Updates have been provided by the district's legal counsel to Procedure 3205P Sexual Harassment of Students Prohibited. Director Creydt asked that this be added to a future meeting agenda for further discussion.
  5. Consent Agenda
The board approved all items listed on the Consent Agenda. President Thomas declared the 5-0 vote.
  A. Approval of Minutes - March 27, 2023 Regular Board Meeting
The board approved the minutes of the March 27, 2023 Regular Board Meeting.
Motion by Don Leu, second by Charles E Gibson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  B. Financial Matters
The board approved Financial Matters as detailed on the Consent Agenda.
Motion by Don Leu, second by Charles E Gibson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  C. Personnel Matters
The board approved the recommended Personnel Matters.
Motion by Don Leu, second by Charles E Gibson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  D. Personnel Matter: Authorization to Issue 2023-2024 Teacher Contracts
The board approved authorization for issuance of 2023-2024 contracts for certificated
instructional and applicable certificated support staff.
Motion by Don Leu, second by Charles E Gibson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  E. Student Travel
The board approved the BHS Varsity Softball Team's request for multi-night travel to
Montesano,WA from May 5-7, 2023.
Motion by Don Leu, second by Charles E Gibson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  F. Contracts & Agreements
The board approved the following service contracts:
2023-2024 NWESD Technology Contract
2023-2024 NWESD Whatcom Detention Center Interlocal Agreement
2023-2024 NWESD Whatcom Discovery Program Interlocal Agreement
2023-2024 Agile Mind MS/HS Math License Agreement
2023-2024 Agile Mind HS Math License Agreement
Washington Connections Academy Interagency Agreement
Motion by Don Leu, second by Charles E Gibson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  G. 2023-2024 School Calendar Update
The board approved an update to the 2023-2024 school year calendar which includes weekly
one-hour late start days on each Wednesday.
Motion by Don Leu, second by Charles E Gibson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Erika Creydt, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
  6. Action Items
A. Resolution 2223-08 Adoption of 2023-2024 Reduced Educational Program
Dr. Granger assured the board that the district's leadership regrets the need to reduce the staffing level in order to align with the district's lower enrollment level and state funding allocation. Ms. Porter explained that the recommended resolution is similar to prior years when reduced staffing levels have been anticipated. The recommended reductions reflect the information available currently which indicates a lack of assurance for revenue to support the district's current staffing level. The timing of the board's action on this matter allows the district to meet the state-mandated deadline of May 15 for providing notice to certificated staff. Ms. Porter further explained that the district is not bound to this reduction plan if the financial outlook improves or enrollment increases. Although she has not had a chance to thoroughly review the final legislative outcomes, she feels optimistic about some of what has been reported. Ms. Porter stated that the district must adjust to a "new normal" level that serves 8.5% fewer students. She added that state law does not allow the district to reallocate money from another fund to the General Fund. In addition to uncertain revenue, the district's expenses for the coming year are also uncertain because of inflationary factors, as well as contract negotiations with both of the district's labor unions. The current year's budget intentionally accounted for $4.8M more in expenditures than revenue which was allowable because of the district's careful planning and saving but is unsustainable for the long term. Because enrollment did not return to pre-pandemic levels and has remained low, the district must now adjust its spending accordingly. Director Creydt asked for more information about what legislative action felt optimistic, and Ms. Porter indicated that several bills related to education went more favorably than expected. Revenue lost through regionalization will be stepped down gradually instead of all at once, and the cap for Special Education students was increased. Director Gibson commented that the district is preparing for the worst and hoping for best. Ms. Porter agreed and reiterated that the extent of the current reduction plan is due to the lack of assurance regarding revenue and expenditures. Discussion continued. President Thomas agreed that the last thing he wants is to reduce teachers, however the district must be fiscally responsible. He expressed appreciation for the collaborative work of the district and campus leadership in making these difficult decisions. President Thomas called for any additional comments or questions from the board, and there were none.
  The board voted to adopt Resolution 2223-08 regarding a Reduced Educational Program Plan for the 2023-2024 school year. Director Creydt announced that she wanted to abstain because the board had been told the budget was fine until July and she thinks there should have been a budget work session to study it further. President Thomas interjected and clarified that the point of a work session was for learning and Director Creydt had failed to take advantage of the opportunities that other board members participated in, such as the WSSDA Conference. President Thomas was interrupted by members of the audience. He informed the audience that their comments had already been heard and this was the board's meeting. He warned that the meeting room would be cleared if the audience continued to interrupt the board's meeting.
  Motion by Kimberly Akre, second by Charles E Gibson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0, 1 abstaining
Yea: Kimberly Akre, Dougal Thomas, Charles E Gibson, Don Leu
Abstain: Erika Creydt
  At 8:51 p.m., the board took a short break. The meeting resumed at 8:58pm
  7. Board Comments and Future Meeting(s)
A. Policy 2121 Substance Abuse Program: Discussion
Director Creydt shared comments on student substance abuse and suggested adding language in this policy specific to vaping. She further suggested that the district test any vapes that are found in order to determine the contents. Discussion followed regarding the feasibility of this suggestion. Dr. Granger commented that the policy, which is aligned with WSSDA's current model language, is intentionally broad to cover all substance abuse. His preference is for law enforcement to handle any testing of vapes, and he expressed concern that the district cannot commit additional resources to a new requirement at this time. Dr. Granger further explained that, upon the advice of legal counsel, the district is not allowed to require that students seek treatment. 
  Discussion continued regarding the district's partnership with Blaine police in addressing student substance abuse. Director Creydt explained that her suggestion is aimed at protecting kids from the opioid drugs coming through Blaine's border crossing. Dr. Granger indicated that he would inquire about the logistics of testing vapes. He added that any language deviating from WSSDA's recommendation should be reviewed by the district's own legal counsel.

This discussion topic will be included again on the May meeting agenda.
  B. General Comments
The May meeting agenda will also include discussion regarding Policy 3205 Sexual Harassment of Students Prohibited.
  C. Future Meeting(s) and Agenda Suggestions
The next regular board meeting is on Monday, May 22, 2023 at 7:00 p.m.

Suggestions for agenda items include:
High School Student Report
School Administrator Monthly Reports
Enrollment Update and Financial Report
Superintendent's Report
WIAA Membership Renewal
Approval of Superintendent's Contract
2023-2024 Board Meeting Calendar
Policy Updates
Discussion of Policies 2121 and 3205
  8. Executive Session
A. Executive Session
At 9:10 p.m., President Thomas announced that the board would move into executive session for the purpose of discussing the performance of a public employee. The executive session would take place in Dr. Granger's office and the regular meeting will reconvene to adjourn at approximately 9:45 p.m. in the district boardroom. Any extension of time would be announced there. No action will follow the executive session.
  9. Reconvene & Adjourn
A. Adjourn
After the executive session, the directors returned to the district boardroom. There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:47pm by consensus of the directors.
  DATE MINUTES APPROVED: May 22, 2023
   
                         ________________________________                            ________________________________
                                      BOARD PRESIDENT                                                               SECRETARY/CLERK