Lynden School District #504
Ensure that all students graduate college, career, and citizenship ready.

School Board Meeting
Lynden School District
Board Room
516 Main St, Lynden, WA 98264
11/7/2024 06:30 PM

1. Call to Order, Welcome and Pledge of Allegiance, Roll Call
Start time: 06:30 PM

2. Approval of Agenda
Start time: 06:35 PM

3. Good News
Start time: 06:35 PM
Lynden Academy hosted a dynamic AI training session led by Jeff Utecht for LA staff, specialists, district office personnel, and
administrators. Staff members learned how to effectively integrate artificial intelligence into educational practices.
Fisher Elementary School recently wrapped up a successful PTA membership contest, energizing students and families to
strengthen their connection with the school. The month-long drive resulted in 122 new members, doubling their membership.
The contest, which rewarded the top classes in each grade level with a Kona Ice party, exemplified the power of collaboration
between families, staff, and the community, reflecting Lynden School District’s commitment to fostering strong family
partnerships that support student success.
Lynden Middle School's students participated in their annual chocolate bar fundraiser and raised over $80,000! Special thanks
to our families and community for their support of this event. Funds will be used to support sports programs, field trips,
dances, and so much more!
36 students enrolled in the *IMPACT Reengagement program last year. Of those students, 13 earned their GED; 6 enrolled in a
college course for the first time; 184 college credits were earned in total. 16 have met their high school English equivalency; 10
have met high school math equivalency; 19 met science equivalency and 13 met the social studies equivalency. Students must
complete all 4 areas to earn their GED. IMPACT Reengagement program is part of the OSPI Open Doors Youth Reengagement
System that provides education and services to older youth, ages 16-21, who have dropped out of school or are not expected
to graduate from high school by the age of 21.
Lynden Middle School hosted families and students for conferences in mid-October. The primary purpose of Fall Conferences
at LMS is to connect with families and students who are experiencing learning challenges.
Lynden Middle hosted their first ever Scholastic Book Fair during conferences as well. It was a big hit with students and
families!
Isom 5th graders have embraced leadership roles as Kindergarten Helpers during lunches and recess. This opportunity
provides valuable support to our younger students and instills a sense of responsibility for older students. It's heartwarming to
see them step up, mentor their peers, and make a positive impact on the school.
The Parent-Advisory Action Team (PAAT) at Lynden Middle School met on October 24th. Any LMS parent or guardian is
welcome to join these sessions. The PAAT collaborates with LMS staff in support of our building goals.
The Waiver Day held on October 7th allowed for professional development at each of our buildings aimed at increasing
understanding of student growth goals and Universal Design for Learning guidelines.
Times noted on agenda items are for guidance only.

Fisher Elementary held their annual jog-a-thon and raised over $16,000! Funds will be used to provide every student with a
Fisher T-shirt to boost school unity while supporting essential activities like field trips, Fisher Field Day, assemblies, yearbooks,
and class parties.
A new playground has been installed at Lynden Academy! Students and staff are very excited to be able to connect and play
together outside.
First responders from the Lynden Fire Department visited Isom Kindergarten classes and shared about fire safety. Students
interacted with the firefighters and were able to handle equipment. These valuable interactions build awareness of what to do
and who to trust in an emergency.
Lynden High School's fall production of Alice and the Rabbits of Wonderland opens on November 8th. Showtimes are
November 8th & 9th at 7:00pm, November 10th at 3:00pm, November 15th &16th at 7:00pm, and a final matinee on
November 17th at 3:00pm. Tickets can be purchased at the door.
Roughly 115 sophomores and juniors at Lynden High School took the PSAT on October 28th. This test gives students a good
understanding of their academic strengths and areas to work on as they begin making plans for post-high school.

4. Meeting Minutes

(Action)

Start time: 06:40 PM
Meeting Minutes 10.03.24
Meeting Minutes 10.12.24

5. Consent Agenda

(Action)

Start time: 06:40 PM
AP/Payroll- October 15, 2024
AP/Payroll- October 31, 2024
Personnel Recommendations- 11.07.2024
Resolution #11-24- Food Service, Meal Balances

6. Information from the audience
Start time: 06:45 PM
Those wishing to address the Board must sign up on the sheet provided. Individuals may address the Board on agenda items as well as
non-agenda items. Tonight's agenda items that may result in action being taken by the board include:
Second reading of Policy 5515- Workforce Secondary Traumatic Stres
Speakers will be recognized by the Board president at the time they are to speak. Each speaker has a maximum of five minutes. It is
important for community members to feel welcome and safe during the meeting. Board members listen and learn from public
comment, but generally will not respond. Topics raised during public comment may receive a follow up from a board member or the
superintendent at a later date as appropriate. The school board does not take public comments on issues related to personnel or
individually named staff members. The presiding officer of the board reserves the right to terminate an individual's statement when
the allotted time has passed and may interrupt a speaker to require the same standard of civility as the board imposes on itself as
specified in Board Policy 1400.

7. Reports
Start time: 07:00 PM

a. Superintendent
b. Teaching and Learning
School Improvement Plans- Bernice Vossbeck, Fisher, & Isom Elementary Schools

c. Finance and Operations
2023/2024 Year End Finance Report

8. Policy

(Action)
Times noted on agenda items are for guidance only.

Start time: 08:00 PM

a. Second Readings
Policy 5515- Workforce Secondary Traumatic Stress

9. Board Committee Reports
Start time: 08:10 PM
Board Committee Reports

10. Information from Board Directors
Start time: 08:15 PM
Information from Board Directors

11. Executive Session
Start time: 08:30 PM
The Board will meet in Executive Session with legal counsel to discuss litigation or potential litigation pursuant to RCW 42.30.110. No
action will be taken during executive session.
Executive Session 11.07.24

12. Adjourn Meeting

Times noted on agenda items are for guidance only.

