Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes October 27, 2020
Generated by Kelly Warner

Members present: Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, Lee Anne Riddle,
Melinda Cool, Jessie Deardorff, Cuong Nguyen, Avneet Pannu
Members absent: None
1. CONVENE
1.01 Call to Order
Mr. Andrew McLaurin called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and welcomed
online audience members.
Present from the administration were Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn, Assistant
Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive
Director for Teaching & Learning Dr. Faye Britt, Executive Director for Teaching
& Learning Kellie Larrabee and Executive Director for Human Resources John
Fairbairn.
1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
At this time, the Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
2.01 Adopt Agenda
The board considered adopting the meeting agenda.
Mr. Kevin Erickson moved to adopt the meeting agenda as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Melinda Cool, Jessie
Deardorff
3. PUBLIC COMMENT [GC-3.3]
3.01 Receive Public Comment
Mr. McLaurin explained the format of Zoom in receiving public comment. He
said we are accepting public comment through a portal on our District website or
through email. He explained any comments received prior to the Board meeting
will be read aloud at the meeting. Any comments that come in through the chat
feature during the Board meeting will be reviewed and answered after the
meeting. Mr. McLaurin noted we did not receive any public comment prior to

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes October 27, 2020
the meeting and reminded audience members that Dr. Quinn writes answers to
questions received from the community during the month and posts those under
the public comment section of BoardDocs and posts them on the website.
4. FOCUS ON STUDENTS
4.01 No Items
5. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
5.01 Receive Quarterly Report from Bond Oversight Committee
Mr. McLaurin said the next item on our agenda is a quarterly report from the
Bond Oversight Committee. He reminded audience members that the Bond
Oversight Committee is an independent seven-person group that was officially
commissioned and recognized by the School Board in May of 2019, to receive
and review information from the District about bond projects; raise questions
and make suggestions to the Board or its designee; and inform the public
concerning the expenditure of bond dollars.
Mr. McLaurin said the primary way the Bond Oversight Committee
communicates its work to the public is by preparing quarterly reports, which are
both posted on the district website, and presented to the School Board. Mr.
McLaurin reminded audience members that the Oversight Committee’s last
quarterly report was presented to the Board in June 2020. He noted that the most
current report is posted on BoardDocs. Mr. McLaurin turned the discussion over
to Mr. Riley Cornelsen, co-chair of the Bond Oversight Committee.
Mr. Riley Cornelsen gave an overview of the Bond Oversight Committee’s
Quarterly Report. He noted that the committee lost a member due to personal
circumstances but they appointed one alternate member, Mr. Joe Lupo.
Mr. Cornelsen said we addressed the debt policy, long-term maintenance and
long-term fiscal planning. He noted that they address these items on a monthly
basis with Mr. McLaurin and the District.
Mr. Cornelsen discussed the Performing Arts Center, which is in need of
significant seismic upgrades due to the 2000 Nisqually Earthquake. He said the
second major item is the review of the existing CTE building, which will be used
for the Golden Eagle Academy. He reminded audience members that there was a
recommendation made by the Oversight Committee to move forward with the

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes October 27, 2020

plan for this space to be used as long as it is upgraded to equitable education
standards. He said they will continue to keep that item on the docket.
Mr. Cornelsen said they continue to work on communicating with the public by
keeping the dashboard that is posted on the website up to date, and updating the
schedule of critical projects as well as communicating with the public cash flow
projections and costs.
Mr. Cornelsen said we are also involved with review of contracts. He said Tiger
Construction did all the secure vestibule work, which is about 95% complete. He
noted it was a good value, good contract, and the work that was done has been
done well and within budget.
Mr. Cornelsen said a major item they spent time on was the 100% Design
Development Drawings, which were released a couple months ago. Four major
themes they pulled out of the drawings were: (1) storm water treatment system,
(2) daylighting/heating & cooling/shading, (3) Architectural Opulence, which
means there are a lot of small things that can be changed, saved, and modified to
save on cost. He said the list includes wall coverings, floor coverings, floor finish
types, door types, relighting and fixtures types. (4) Future planning for both
program and building expansion of the classroom wing. He said the Bond
Oversight Committee is focusing on providing value to the taxpayers and the
students who will end up using it verses spending money on unnecessary items.
Mr. Cornelsen gave an overview of the following items:
• Security Projects – Tiger Construction contract for the secure vestibules is
complete and it amounted to less than initially anticipated. He said the secure
vestibule projects are 1 to 2 % of the bond allocated value, which is a really
good thing to see and share with the community.
• Construction Funding Review – Mr. Cornelsen said we were excited to hear
the district decided to move forward with a financial advisor for the most
recent sale of bonds and more over that the bond sale went very well. He said
we received a better percentage on the second sale than on the first sale. He
noted that, that will give taxpayers a lower bond rate on their taxes. Mr.
Cornelsen said Committee Member, Sandi McMillan, wrote a statement
regarding the bond sale, which is attached to BoardDocs. The letter was
submitted to the editor at My Ferndale News.

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes October 27, 2020

•

Mr. Cornelsen said they look forward to keeping the third bond sale in the
same wheelhouse and having a good return on the investment for the
stakeholders in the community.
Evaluate Cost Saving Measures – Mr. Cornelsen said Corporate/Business/
Community sponsorship is something we want to keep as we move through
the process of working on the high school. He said we want to continue to
advocate for any cost saving measures moving forward in the construction
process not just in the design. He said we want to touch on the maintenance
department performing some of the bond work themselves which is a good
choice for cost perspective, not having to bid that work outside, and giving
them added familiarity with the systems that they will be maintaining.

Mr. Cornelsen said in conclusion, it continues to be a good process and good
discussion and debate across the board from everyone on the committee as well
as contractors, designers and the school district. He said we are encouraged with
the plans, design, and process and want to continue focusing on promoting value
for the people who voted for this and more importantly the people who voted
no. He said we want to make sure we do this right for the kids and community
and are able to say we did what we said we were going to do.
Mr. Cornelsen answered questions from the board.
Mr. McLaurin clarified that the deal that we received on selling the bonds was
because the rates were a function of the changes in the market. He said what we
really got from the financial advisor was a letter of affirmation that the deal that
our council and D.A. Davidson put together was a great one. He noted that the
same process was followed during the second bond sale but the market rates
changed which gave us a better rate than the first sale.
Ms. Cool said it was great to have affirmation from the financial advisor but it
did not change things with the sale so she does not feel it should be a given that
we have another financial advisor without a discussion about it first.
Mr. McLaurin said he attends the BOC meetings and is always impressed on the
questions asked by the committee and the preparedness of the committee.
Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn said the Bond Oversight committee has been
good affirmation for the district. She said they are asking the same questions
about the design documents that we would want asked about the design

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes October 27, 2020
documents and the whole Bond Oversight Committee process has been good
affirmation for the district as well.
Ms. Cool asked clarifying questions about the repairs done on the Performing
Arts Center after the Nisqually earthquake. She asked if the repairs that were
completed met code at the time and if those codes changed.
Mr. Cornelsen said the understanding we have as the Oversight Committee is we
knew there were repairs made after the Nisqually Earthquake. After additional
investigation by Dykeman and consultants, there were repairs made to damage
after the earthquake but not any systemic retro upgrades to the building itself.
He believes that the repairs were completed within the current requirements at
the time. Mr. Deebach added that they repaired the damage but did not do any
seismic upgrades and the codes have changed.
Mr. Erickson noted that he appreciates the work that the Bond Oversight
Committee has done and appreciates Mr. McLaurin mentioning that the bond
sale percentage was more due to market change not due to what was done at the
bond sale with the financial advisor. Mr. Erickson said within the main quarterly
report, the committee talked about how the district needs to develop a
maintenance plan or program. He said we had a maintenance plan all laid out
but unfortunately the bond took a few times to get that passed. He noted we do
have the facilities master plan and need to get it back on track as we get the
school built. Mr. McLaurin noted he has shared with the Oversight Committee
that we do have that plan.
Mr. McLaurin noted that we will have a further discussion on our study session
in November and review suggestions from the Bond Oversight Committee.
5.02 Report on Capital Projects Bond
Assistant Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach said the
architects and engineers are working on getting the drawings ready to go to
permit. He said there is not much more to report since the last time we spoke.
Mr. McLaurin asked when the next bond sale is. Mr. Deebach said the next bond
sale is next summer. He said the first sale was near historic lows and the second
sale was even better because of the way the market is right now.

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes October 27, 2020
Dr. Quinn added that when we sold the first batch of bonds, we did better than
anyone did in that week. Dr. Quinn noted we received exactly the same rate we
would have received without a financial advisor. She said the advisor said we
did great.
Ms. Cool suggested adding something to the district website that shows a
comparison of what the anticipated rate was for the bond and what it actually is
going to be after these sales. Dr. Quinn reminded the Board that we did do that
after the first sale but she said this is a very good suggestion.
There was a brief discussion about the roofing project at Vista Middle School.
Mr. McLaurin said you can find more information about the bond and the work
of the Bond Oversight Committee on the district website. He reminded audience
members that Dr. Quinn publishes weekly bond updates every Friday, and you
can sign up to have them sent directly to your email.
5.03 Update on the Levy Campaign
Mr. McLaurin called on Dr. Quinn to share any updates about the final stages of
the campaign.
Superintendent Dr. Quinn said we had three meetings last week with our nonEnglish speaking families. She said the main purpose was to make sure they
have information about the hybrid model and see if they have questions about
the levy. Dr. Quinn said there have been many sign waivers out on the campaign
side and now we are encouraging people to get their ballots turned in.
Dr. Quinn said we reinvented what it means to put on an informational
campaign in the middle of the pandemic and we should keep these tools moving
forward.
There was a brief discussion on the turnout of voters in Whatcom County.
Dr. Quinn said there is nothing else to report other than we are preparing some
statements and press releases to go out once we know the results.
Mr. McLaurin noted that voting is both a duty and a privilege. He said as adults,

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes October 27, 2020
I hope we are all modeling this aspect of democracy for the students in our
school district.
6. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
6.01 No Items
7. SHARING [GC-7.E.]
7.01 Student Board Members
Avneet shared that this week the high school students put together a virtual
spirit week since Halloween is coming up. She informed audience members that
the second round of Driver’s Ed starts on November 6 and if you would like to
take an AP test, you have to be signed up by November 6. She also noted that
some sports are about to start at the high school.
Cuong commented that he watched a levy live stream on Facebook and then he
watched a past video of Dr. Quinn interviewing elementary students. He said it
was very impactful to see that teachers mean so much to these elementary
students. Dr. Quinn thanked Cuong for that memory.
7.02 Elected Board Members
Ms. Cool shared that she saw kindergarteners and first graders getting fresh air
at Cascadia Elementary. She said that was awesome and it is good to see them
back in school.
Dr. Erickson shared news about this family. His son is working on a community
service project with local schools on getting students back into school. They are
creating videos on how to wear masks and wash hands etc.
7.03 Superintendent
Dr. Quinn said we did not put reopening schools on this agenda because we
spend an hour at the study session last week discussing it but she wants to give a
shout out to the staff in the buildings for doing a great job. She said first graders
came back and there were many happy stories. She said Julianna Larsen was on
our Facebook Live Zoom last week and she was great. Dr. Quinn reminded the
Board that we will get the other half of first graders on Thursday and Friday.
Next Monday, second and third graders are coming back and on November 9
fourth and fifth will be coming in. Dr. Quinn noted that the Executive team will
be going to the schools next Monday to help out. She said we also started some

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes October 27, 2020
athletic practices this Monday and everything went well. The kids were thrilled
to be back. She said there was also play tryouts for Little Women. She said it will
be a filmed production that you can watch as a movie.
7.04 Executive Administration
Mr. Fairbairn shared his experience this morning with L&I. He said as a way to
see how the plans we implemented are weighing out, we invited L&I to audit
our procedures. He said we went and saw three sights, the largest of remote
access site, the largest kindergarten class, and the largest life skills class since
those are our closest contact programs, which is where we have the closest
proximity with students. He said L&I had a few small suggestions. Mr. Fairbairn
said the thing that stuck out in my mind was the tremendous job our staff are
doing and the nurses are doing an amazing job. They have been troopers. He
said our staff gets an A+. Mr. Fairbairn said the staff knew all of the procedures
that L&I asked. He said we are doing what we need to do to keep people safe. He
said we have some small details that we will fix.
8. SUPERINTENDENT CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
8.01 All administrative matters delegated to the superintendent that are required to be
approved by the Board will be acted upon by the Board via the consent agenda.
Ms. Lee Anne Riddle moved to approve the superintendent’s consent agenda as
presented. Motion carried.
8.02 Authorize the Development of Professional Plans to Achieve Endorsement
Moved to authorize the Development of Professional Plans to Achieve
Endorsement, as attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
8.03 Declare Buses Surplus
Moved to declare buses surplus as attached hereto and made a part of the
minutes.
8.04 Authorize Vouchers
Audit Committee Members are Andrew McLaurin, Kevin Erickson, and Melinda
Cool
Authorized Voucher Transmittals:
GENERAL FUND
Vouchers 280963-280965, 280966-281069, 281086-281161 & 281172 in the amount

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes October 27, 2020
of $781,221.50
GENERAL FUND PAYROLL
Warrants 477660-477680 dated September 30, 2020, in the amount of
$1,427,600.62; and electronic deposits in the amount of $2,795,631.41 for a total of
$4,223,232.03.
CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND
Vouchers 281070-281076 & 281162-281167 in the amount of $500,012.67
A.S.B. FUND
Vouchers 281077-281085 & 281168-281171 in the amount of $46,585.59
8.05 Adopt Administrative Policy 4218 Language Access Plan
Moved to adopt administrative policy 4218 Language Access Plan, as attached
hereto and made a part of the minutes.
8.06 Approve Hiring of Personnel
Moved to approve the hiring of personnel, per the list attached hereto and made
a part of the minutes.
8.07 Accept Resignations and Retirements
Moved to approve resignations and retirements per the list attached hereto and
made a part of the minutes.
8.08 Authorize Leave of Absences
Moved to approve leave of absences, per the list attached hereto and made a part
of the minutes.
8.09 Authorize Personal Services and Supplemental Contracts
Moved to approve Personal and Supplemental contracts for October 2020, per
the list attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
8.10 Adopt Resolution No. 25-2020 Canceling Warrants
Moved to adopt Resolution No. 25-2020 canceling General Fund warrants
numbered 280729 and 280782, as attached hereto and made part of the minutes.

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes October 27, 2020
8.11 Accept September 2020 Fund Balance Financial Statements
Moved to accept the September 2020 Fund Balance Financial Statements, as
attached hereto and made part of the minutes.
8.12 Authorize Whatcom CTE Dual Credit Consortium Memorandum of Agreement
between the District, Bellingham Technical College and Whatcom Community College
Moved to authorize the Whatcom CTE Dual Credit Consortium Memorandum of
Agreement between the District, Bellingham Technical College and Whatcom
Community College, as attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
9. BOARD CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
9.01 The Board will use a consent agenda as a means to expedite the disposition of
routine matters and dispose of other items of business it chooses not to discuss.
Ms. Lee Anne Riddle moved to approve the board’s consent agenda as
presented. Motion carried.
9.02 Approve Minutes
Moved to approve minutes of September 29, 2020, regular meeting and October
21, 2020, special meeting, as attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
9.03 Review Board of Directors' Budget
Moved to review the Year-to-Date Board of Directors' Budget as of September 30,
2020, as attached hereto and made part of the minutes.
10. ADJOURN
The meeting was adjourned at 8:02 p.m.

__________________________________
School Board President

________________________________
School Board Secretary

