Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting January 28, 2020.
Generated by Tammy Bengen
Members present: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Jessie Deardorff, Melinda Cool,
Avneet Pannu, Noah Semu
Members absent: Lee Anne Riddle
Meeting called to order at 7:00 PM
1. CONVENE
Information: 1.01 Meet and Greet
A board member was available from 6:45-7:00 p.m. to greet audience members.
Information: 1.02 Call to Order
Mr. McLaurin called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and welcomed audience
members. There were approximately 25 members in the audience. The meeting
was held in the library at Vista Middle School, 6051 Vista Drive, Ferndale,
Washington.
Present from the administration were Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn, Assistant
Superintendent for Teaching & Learning Scott Brittain, Assistant Superintendent
for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive Director for Human
Resources John Fairbairn, Executive Director for Student Services Dr. Paul
Douglas and Executive Director for Teaching & Learning Kellie Larrabee.
Information: 1.03 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
At this time, the Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
Action: 2.01 Adopt Agenda
Melinda Cool moved to adopt the meeting agenda.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Jessie Deardorff, Melinda Cool
3. PUBLIC COMMENT [GC-3.3]
Information: 3.01 Recognize and Celebrate School Board Members
January is School Board Recognition Month. Dr. Quinn led the recognition of
school board members. She presented flowers and basket of items that included
gift cards, food and other momentos to each board member. Items were
generously donated by students and staff of the district.
A special musical performance was presented by members of the Ferndale High
School Musical Production "My Fair Lady." Under the director of Crissy Ford
and Rachel Pringle, cast members Noah Semu, Sarah Pringle and Rome Williams
performed an excerpt from the musical.

1

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting January 28, 2020.
Eagleridge Elementary School students sent a "thank you" song via video to the
school board. It was presented on screen.
Information: 3.02 Received Bond Oversight Committee Quarterly Report
Bond Oversight Committee members introduced themselves to the board.
Present were Riley Cornelsen, Anya Milton, Sandi McMillan, Brian Lynch and
Mark Harting. They presented their second quarterly report to the school board
as attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Mr. Cornelsen began with an overview of the committee. He reported that the
committee has a full slate of members and is currently seeking alternate
members. He said the committee has spent more time the last few months
focused on their role of overseeing and advising the district. The committee has
developed a communication dashboard on the website where community
members can track projects. Committee members have reviewed contracts, site
plans, the design process, evaluated cost saving measures and reviewed budget
items. He pointed out there are a lot of moving parts as the plan for the new high
school moves forward. He noted that schedule wise, the district is slightly behind
by about one month. He said preliminary site work has been a big part of that
delay. However, the upfront time spent now will save money later in the process.
Mr. Cornelsen said a major item the committee has discussed is construction
funding. The committee is advocating that the district adopt a debt policy. He
said Sandi McMillan has provided some sample documents to the district. He
noted it will be good to have a policy in place as more bonds will be needed in
the future.
Ms. McMillan added that a debt policy would outline who would be involved in
bond sales. She said that although the district did well on its first sale of bonds,
there is a chance it could do better. She spoke to the first bonds being repaid in 18
years instead of 22 years. She said this shifts the payment to the current
taxpayers and doesn't burden the future generation that will enjoy the new
facilities. She suggested having a conversation with the community to see what
their thoughts were on this matter.
Mr. Cornelsen said that one item the committee has been revisiting monthly is
cost saving measures. In that vain, the committee has proposed the district adopt
a sponsorship and donation policy. The committee has been reviewing the
matter each month and receiving updates from the board through board member
Andrew McLaurin who is the liaison between BOC and the school board. The
committee believes there is potential for some donations to be received with
regard to the high school project.

2

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting January 28, 2020.
Last, Mr. Cornelsen said there has been a good working relationship between the
committee and the district and its representatives. There have been hard
conversations, but the mindset is that we are doing the best that we can with the
money that we have, and we are accountable to our community. The committee
is looking forward to the high school project moving forward with the design
and educational specifications aspects.
Ms. Cool asked Ms. McMillan if it was good to repay bonds in 18 years versus 22
years. Ms. McMillan explained it would be beneficial to involve the community
in that decisions. Property taxes are going up. Although the district may pay a bit
more interest on bonds over the 22 years, it may be more affordable for
taxpayers.
Mr. McLaurin expressed his appreciation to the committee for their commitment
and time to this process.
Information: 3.03 Received Public Comment
Mr. McLaurin recognized audience members who may have comments to
present to the board.
Golden Eagle Booster Club President Joe Lupo commented. He stated his
appreciation for the district being open to the concept of outside sponsorships.
He offered his help with soliciting donations. He said he felt good where the
bond work was going. He did share concerns with the BOC about the place of
the Career & Technical Education (CTE) building. He also stated concern about
the 90% building utilization and that we might be sizing ourselves out of being
viable. He ended comments with a quote from Winston Churchill.
Former Board Member Candice Wilson thanked the board and district for all
they do. She thanked them for honoring Treaty Day this year. She especially
acknowledged the video that the district made with the Children of the Setting
Sun Productions. She said it is phenomenal and historic for this district. She also
reminded the board of the historical trauma in the district with the Lummi tribal
members. She invited members to read hearing documents from the U.S.
Commission on Civil Rights dated October 1977. She noted that there is an
exhibition of the tribal canoe journeys at the Whatcom Museum. She
congratulated Mr. McLaurin and Dr. Erickson on their new roles. And
recognized that three women now serve on the board. She thanked Mr. Lupo for
his comments and asked him to consider filling the vacancy on BOC.

3

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting January 28, 2020.
Community Member Andrew Gustafson spoke to the upcoming levy. He said
voters should vote no. He asked the board to resubmit the failed levy in
November at the $1.50 rate. He said running it in November will give voters time
to gather facts and there will be greater voter turnout. He referred to information
from the county assessor. He said the district is counting on the legislature to
come through with additional funding. He said the board is ignoring the
breaking point that taxpayers are reaching.
4. FOCUS ON STUDENTS
Information: 4.01 Update on FerndaleCares Initiative
Superintendent Dr. Linda Quinn provided an update to the board on the
FerndaleCares initiative. The committee has been meeting and reviewing the
ThoughtExchange Survey about improving district culture. She reported on
aspects of the Employee Wellness Program. Also, she said on the February 26
district sponsored professional development day, Character Strong will present
and talk about the important of relationships and how we support our students
and others.
Information: 4.02 Received the Monitoring Report for Results Policy 1 (R-1) Mission
Dr. Quinn presented the monitoring report for Results Policy 1 (R-1) Mission to
the board. This matter will be scheduled for discussion at the school board's
February business meeting.
5. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
Information: 5.01 Report on Capital Projects Bond
Dr. Quinn and Mr. Deebach reported on the Capital Projects Bond.
With regard to the site plans for the high school, Mr. Deebach said the district
has provided copies and information of the proposed site plans to the Design
Advisory Committee, Bond Oversight Committee, Ferndale High School staff
and residents of the Diane Court residential area. The administration is
recommending option 3 for the site. He reviewed the general layout of option 3
which is the best option from a design standpoint and because it is the lowest
cost option. It also has the shortest construction time. Based on conversations
with DAC and BOC, the design will continue to be refined.
Dr. Quinn said one item that has come up is the location of the CTE building.
While Ferndale values CTE education and wants to showcase it, there were
questions about creative ways to conceal the larger outdoor workspaces needed
for the program. She said Ferndale High School Principal Jeremy Vincent will
meet with CTE teachers and look at options.

4

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting January 28, 2020.
There was discussion about the prominence of the entrance and the courtyard.
Ms. Cool brought up the fact that the three story building will cast shadows on
the north facing courtyard which will make it very dark in winter months.
Dr. Quinn said the district has a constrained budget, but will not compromise on
common spaces in the building. She said the district will build a school where
classrooms can be added for growth at a later date. She said the GC/CM process
has been a very good choice for the district. It will save the district money in the
long run and will get the district a better building.
Following review and discussion of the plans, board members, by consensus,
stated their support for option 3 and its general location for the site.
6. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
Information: 6.01 Reviewed the Monitoring Report for Operational Expectations Policy
2 (OE-2) Succession Planning
Dr. Linda Quinn presented the monitoring report for Operational Expectations
Policy 2 (OE-2) Succession Planning to the board at its December 2019 meeting. It
is now before the board for discussion.
Board members reviewed the report. Dr. Erickson said he liked the team
approach. He appreciated the aspects about building relationships in non-crisis
times.
Mr. McLaurin will gather and compile board members feedback into one
document. This matter will be placed on the board's consent agenda for February
25.
Action: 6.02 Reviewed and Considered Policy 6113 Recognition of Significant Gifts and
Donations
Board members reviewed and considered Policy 6113 Recognition of Significant
Gifts and Donations.
Dr. Quinn noted comments made by the Bond Oversight Committee (BOC)
regarding the parameters listed for corporations and business entities to
participate. Mr. McLaurin said BOC was concerned that some local vendors may
not be eligible because of the products they distribute. Specifically, they were
referring to bullet number five on page one of the policy.
There was discussion about changing the wording in the policy to allow leeway
for interpretation. Dr. Quinn was asked to reword this section of the policy. The
policy will be scheduled for further review and consideration at the February
board meeting.

5

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting January 28, 2020.
Action: 6.03 Adopted Resolution No. 2-2020 In Observance of School Retirees'
Appreciation Week
Dr. Quinn presented Resolution No. 2-2020 In Observance of School Retirees'
Appreciation Week for the board's consideration. Also, she pointed out the
proclamation for same from Governor Jay Inslee. She said the retirees'
association provides student scholarships, teacher mini-grants for classrooms
and lobbies the legislature on behalf of all teachers.
Dr. Kevin Erickson moved to adopt Resolution No. 2-2020 in observance of
School Retirees' Appreciation Week, as attached hereto and made a part of the
meeting.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Jessie Deardorff, Melinda Cool
7. SHARING [GC-7.E.]
Information: 7.01 Student Board Members
Avneet Pannu shared that videos and lessons focused on Treaty Day were
provided to high school students. She reported it's finals week. The Winter Ball
will be held Saturday. The DECA Team will be competing at the state level. She
thanked board members for all they do.
Noah Semu reported that students had a lot of days off this month due to
weather conditions and number of holidays. He is a member of the cast for the
upcoming high school musical; practices are well underway for the musical. He
said he has been accepted into Stanford to study computer science and
engineering. Dr. Quinn noted that Stanford has a four percent acceptance rate of
its applicants.
Information: 7.02 Elected Board Members
Dr. Erickson reported that his son has an upcoming interview with University of
Washington Medical School personnel.
Ms. Cool said seventh graders at Horizon Middle School are studying local
government. She accepted an invitation from one of the teachers to speak with a
class. She talked with them about how to get involved in their community and
government. Also, students wanted to know about equity, school start times, bus
schedules and the construction of the new high school. Also, she said she was at
a community event on Saturday where an individual commended the district on
recognizing Treaty Day.
Mr. McLaurin noted he met with the state auditors on Monday to kick-off the
audit. He said they will be in the district for about a month going through
records and looking at programs, expenditures and how we track those.

6

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting January 28, 2020.
Information: 7.03 Superintendent
Dr. Quinn shared a letter and Native art which was presented to the district in
recognizing Treat Day by the United Church of Ferndale. The art will most likely
be displayed at the district office.
Dr. Quinn said that on Sunday, at the invitation of Miss Pannu and Assistant
Principal Rav Dhillon, she visited the Sikh temple. Also, last Saturday Dr. Quinn
and colleague Carol Coe presented at the League of Women Voters on the topic
of civic education in Washington. In preparation for the presentation, it caused
Dr. Quinn to interview Ferndale High School Teacher Scott Browne who is doing
a very good job of teaching civics in a simulation style.
Dr. Quinn said ballots for the election are in the mail. The election is two weeks
from tonight. She said she has been asked why this and other districts run
elections in February. She said it has to do with the timing for our budget
development for next year. Also, if the levy doesn't pass and the district finds
itself in a layoff position, there are laws in place that govern timelines for that to
take place which is in the spring of each year. Knowing what funds the district
will receive from the passage of the levy helps predict what the district will offer
next year.
Information: 7.04 Executive Administration
Mr. Deebach thanked the board for all the time they invest for students and staff.
Dr. Douglas said he appreciates all the hard work board members do in a
voluntary status. Also, he reported on addressing food insecurity. He said when
students are hungry it's hard to engage them in learning. He is working to make
sure that every student in our district has access to food. He reported that the
district has partnered with Nature's Path in Blaine to provide breakfast bags for
all middle school students to take home. Also, there was enough product for
distribution to other secondary and Eagleridge Elementary School students. And,
the district gave some product to law enforcement officers to share with families
when they see a need. The approximate donation from Natura's Path amounts to
$50,000. He further reported that Nature's Path has asked if they can sponsor an
elementary school by providing snacks to the school for the remainder of the
year.
Also, Dr. Douglas reported that he will email more details to the board about the
Inclusionary Practices workshop sponsored by OSPI and WASA.
Mr. Brittain thanked board members for all the work they do. With regard to the
DECA Team going to state. He said he spoke with DECA Advisor Michelle
Sterns who indicated that more students from Ferndale are going to the state
competition than any other school in our region.

7

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting January 28, 2020.
8. SUPERINTENDENT CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Action (Consent): 8.01 All administrative matters delegated to the superintendent that
are required to be approved by the Board will be acted upon by the Board via the
consent agenda.
Dr. Erickson moved to approve the superintendent's consent agenda. Motion carried.
Action (Consent): 8.02 Authorized Vouchers
Authorized Voucher Transmittals:
GENERAL FUND
Vouchers 278555-278685, 278711-278829, 278857-278984 & 279021 in the amount
of $1,308,090.89.
GENERAL FUND PAYROLL
Warrants 477479-477498 dated December 31, 2019 in the amount of $931,753.64;
and electronic deposits in the amount of $3,553,664.82 for a total of $4,485,418.46.
Manual warrants 278552-278554 for $289.01
CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND
Voucher 278686, 278830-278835, 278985-278986 in the amount of $100,526.00
A.S.B. FUND
Vouchers 278687-278710, 278836-278856, 278987-279019 & 279022 in the amount
of $66,259.61
PPT FUND
Voucher 279020 in the amount of $60.00
Action (Consent): 8.03 Approved Hiring of Personnel
Approved the hiring of personnel, per the list attached hereto and made a part of
the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.04 Accepted Resignations and Retirements
Approved resignations and retirements, per the list attached hereto and made a
part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.05 Authorized Supplemental Contracts
Approved supplemental contracts for January 2020, per the list attached hereto
and made a part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.06 Adopted Resolution No. 1-2020 Canceling Warrants
Adopted Resolution No. 1-2020 canceling General Fund warrants numbered
278282, 278375, 278453, 477430, and 477498, as attached hereto and made part of
the minutes.
8

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting January 28, 2020.
Action (Consent): 8.07 Accepted December 2019 Fund Balance Financial Statements
Accepted the December 2019 Fund Balance Financial Statements, as attached
hereto and made part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.08 Authorized Travel
Authorized travel for:
1. School Board Student Member Avneet Pannu to attend the
WASA/WSSDA/WASBO Legislative Conference February 8-10, 2020 in
Olympia, Washington. Estimated expenses of $680 will be paid by the board's
travel budget.
2. Ferndale High School Advisors Tony Torretta, Mitch Davis, Nicole Perry and
27 students to attend the 212/360 Emerge Leadership Conference February 28-29,
2020 in Olympia, Washington. Estimated expenses of $2700 will be paid by
students, ASB/FFA Budget and CTE Budget.
3. Teachers Shannon Iwasaki and Andrew Berry to attend the Edgenuity
Partnership Summit February 25-27, 2020 in Phoenix, Arizona. Estimated
expenses of $2,027 will be paid by the Title IA budget.
Action (Consent): 8.09 Revised and Adopted Administrative Policies
Reviewed and adopted the following administrative policies as attached hereto
and made a part of the minutes:
Policy 3143, District Notification of Juvenile Offenders
Policy 3144, Release of Information Concerning Student Sexual and Kidnapping
Offenders
Policy 3145, Sex Offender Access to District Property
Policy 4060, Distribution of Materials
Policy 5201, Drug-Free Schools, Community and Workplace is being revised to
align with WSSDA model policy
Policy 5202, Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration Mandated Drug and
Alcohol Testing Program is being revised to align with WSSDA model policy
Policy 6220, Bid or Request for Proposal Requirements

9

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting January 28, 2020.
9. BOARD CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Action (Consent): 9.01 The Board will use a consent agenda as a means to expedite the
disposition of routine matters and dispose of other items of business it chooses not to
discuss.
Dr. Erickson moved to approve the board's consent agenda. Motion carried.
Action (Consent): 9.02 Approved Minutes
Approved minutes of the December 17, 2019 regular meeting, as attached hereto
and made a part of the minutes.
Information: 9.03 Reviewed Board of Directors' Budget
Reviewed the Year-to-Date Board of Directors' Budget as of December 31, 2019,
as attached hereto and made part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 9.04 Accepted Monitoring Report for Results Policy 2.6 (R-2.6)
Academic Achievement: Arts
Accepted Monitoring Report for Results Policy 2.6 (R-2.6) Academic
Achievement: Arts, as attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
10. ADJOURN
Meeting adjourned at 8:45 p.m.

____________________________________
School Board President

____________________________________
School Board Secretary

10

