Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes July 28, 2020
Generated by Kelly Warner
Members present: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool, Avneet Pannu, Cuong Nguyen
Members absent: None
Meeting called to order at 7:04 PM
1. CONVENE
Information: 1.01 Call to Order
Meeting called to order at 7:04 PM
Mr. McLaurin called the meeting to order at 7:04 p.m. and welcomed
online audience members.
Present from the administration were Superintendent Linda Quinn,
Assistant Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach,
Executive Director of Teaching and Learning Kellie Larrabee, Executive
Director of Teaching and Learning Faye Britt and Executive Director for
Human Resources John Fairbairn.
Information: 1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
At this time, the Pledge of Allegiance was recited
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
Action: 2.01 Adopt Agenda
Lee Anne Riddle moved to adopt the meeting agenda
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool

3. PUBLIC COMMENT [GC-3.3]
Information: 3.01 Receive Public Comment
Mr. McLaurin explained the format of Zoom in receiving public comment. He
shared that two comments had been submitted on the subject matter as noted
below:
Peggy Uppiano – School Board Meeting Zoom Recordings
Anonymous Parent – Teaching & Learning – Special Education Students
Mr. McLaurin commented that the Zoom meeting recordings are available
online and can be accessed through the district website.
Mr. McLaurin noted that written answers to the community questions
received during the month of July can be found under the Public Comment
section in BoardDocs.
Information: 3.02 Presentation of Ferndale-Lynden Masonic Outstanding Educator
Award
Superintendent Dr. Quinn announced that our Masonic awarders chose not to
be on the Zoom tonight. They really wanted to give the award in person, so
there will be a little ceremony at 11:00 a.m. tomorrow that is going to meet all
the guidelines. This means only the awardee, her family, the Masonic
awarders, and Dr. Quinn can be there.
Dr. Quinn announced that the winner of the Masonic Outstanding Educator
Award is Laurie Bianco. She read the tribute to Laurie which can be found on
BoardDocs.
Information: 3.03 Recognize the District's Business of the Year
Superintendent Dr. Quinn announced Coconut Kenny’s and owners Chay
and Lee Tan have been selected as the Ferndale School District Business of the
Year.
Dr. Quinn read the tribute to Coconut Kenny’s which can be found on
BoardDocs. Dr. Quinn noted we have a trophy for Coconut Kenny’s which we
will deliver to them.

Chay Tan said a few words. He said without our school district and the
community they cannot be successful. Mr. Tan said they are thrilled to receive
this award and thrilled to be a part of it all. Mr. Tan thanked everyone for
recognizing Coconut Kenny’s.
4. FOCUS ON STUDENTS
4.01 No items
5. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
Information: 5.01 Report on Capital Projects Bond
Assistant Superintendent for Business and Support Services Mr. Mark
Deebach shared the following highlights about our bond projects and
answered questions from the Board.
• Our secure vestibule project is underway. People may have noticed
work being done at our schools, particularly Skyline.
• We have contracted Scott Bauer as our financial advisor who came
recommended by Cynthia Weed from our bond council. He is onboard
and will be side by side with us as we go through the process of selling
the second round of bonds coming up in August.
• As a reminder, the Performing Arts Center has 2 million dollars
budgeted for renovations and upgrades as part of the bond package.
The architects and engineers have raised some questions about the
seismic condition of the building. We reviewed the plans and
documentation from the 2002 repairs that were completed on the PAC
after the Nisqually earthquake in 2001. The repairs were not quite as
extensive in improving the structural integrity of the building as we
hoped they would be. The recommendation is to put some investment
into upgrading the seismic condition of that building. There is no
immediate life safety danger, but the work needs to be done to bring
the building up to code. Due to the cost of the repairs, some of the
smaller items we planned to do may not be completed. We will be
getting a list of items from the engineers with cost estimates so we can
identify those items and the cost associated with them.
• We are nearing the completion of the design development phase of the
project. We should have some design drawings from the architects in
early August.

Information: 5.02 Update on Reopening School
Executive Directors of Teaching & Learning, Ms. Kellie Larrabee and Dr. Faye
Britt shared information from the 60-person Reopening Task Force and
answered questions from the Board.
Dr. Britt said the Reopening Task Force has broken up into the following
subgroups based upon areas of interest and expertise.
•
•
•
•
•

Equity & Access
Infrastructure
Social Emotional Learning
Facilities & Operations/ Health & Safety
Communications

Ms. Larrabee said they have identified what our 3 models will be for the fall.
They are getting close to announcing the content of what that will look like as
far as instructional materials for our staff and students. They are hoping to
have that early next week. Ms. Larrabee said we are creating a Ferndale
registration process where families sign up for the learning model they would
like their students to be placed in. We are hoping to send that out next week
to start asking families what their preference will be for learning in the fall.
Information: 5.03 Update on the Budget Development Process
Assistant Superintendent for Business and Support Services Mr. Mark
Deebach reported on the development of the 2020-2021 budget and answered
questions from the Board.
Mr. Deebach explained the Citizens’ Budget to the Board. This document is
posted on BoardDocs for their review. The Citizens’ Budget is a more userfriendly graphical representation of the official budget that is required to be
provided in a prescriptive state format called the F195. Mr. Deebach asked the
Board to review the Citizens’ Budget on BoardDocs and email him any
questions. He will put together some answers and give the Board some
information prior to the budget hearing on August 18th. Mr. Deebach noted
the draft budgets are being posted to the district’s website.
Mr. Deebach presented 2 versions of the F195F 4-Year Projected Budget
Analysis. One forecasted version includes the passage of the November 2020

levy and one forecasted version is without. Mr. Deebach said we must pick
one version and asked the Board which version they would like to have
submitted with the F195 to the state. After a brief discussion, the Board
decided on the version without passage of the levy in November 2020.
Information: 5.04 Update on Levy Information Campaign
Superintendent Dr. Quinn highlighted some items the district has been
working on which includes the following:
• Updating the one-page levy information sheet to incorporate feedback
that we received from staff
• Development of short informational pieces that our principals can put
in newsletters and on social media posts.
• Launching a voter’s registration campaign
• Contacting Children of the Setting Sun Productions to help us create an
informational video
• Starting this week, we will be doing a weekly Facebook live (COVID-19
style) on Thursdays at 4:00 p.m. We will be using a webinar format and
streaming it so that we do not have a bunch of people in the same room
together.
Discussion: 5.05 Discussion/Planning for the Addition of a Land Acknowledgement
at Board Meetings
Mr. McLaurin discussed with the Board the addition of having a land
acknowledgement that is read at the start of our Board meetings to
acknowledge where we are and why we are here.
Dr. Quinn shared an attachment and link to resources for land
acknowledgement which can be found on BoardDocs.
The Board agrees this is something that is important for us to have.
Mr. McLaurin asked Dr. Quinn to work with Ms. Deardorff on this. Ms.
Deardorff requested to have a meeting set up with the Lummi Tribal Council
to get their feedback.

6. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
Action: 6.01 Adopt Administrative Policy F6106 Allowable Costs for Federal
Programs
Dr. Kevin Erickson moved to adopt administrative policy no. F6106, as
attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie Deardorff,
Melinda Cool
7. SHARING [GC-7.E.]
Information: 7.01 Student Board Members
Avneet & Cuong did not have any new news to share at this time. They
thanked the district for the hard work they are doing over the summer.
Information: 7.02 Elected Board Members
Mr. McLaurin noted we have been doing zoom for about 5 months and we
have gotten a lot of traction from folks wanting to attend virtually. Mr.
McLaurin asked if the Board would like to consider keeping some process in
place for recording and broadcasting the board meetings when we return to
in-person meetings. The Board members said they would like to put it on the
next meeting agenda so that we can open it up for discussion and public
input.
Ms. Deardorff and Ms. Cool shared news regarding their family.
Ms. Riddle shared that there is a legislative assembly in September for the
Board to attend virtually. She believes there is no cost to attend. She also said
on Monday, August 10, from 9-10:30 a.m. there is a pre-caucus session for our
director area. She said this is a time for the Board to come together and talk
about issues that are coming forward that we want to highlight and let people
know about when it comes time to vote.
Information: 7.03 Superintendent
None

Information: 7.04 Executive Administration
Mr. Deebach noted the city has approached us looking for some help in trying
to find a place that is large enough for them to hold court. They need a space
big enough to socially distance 30-40 people for their proceedings. We are
working with them to see if there is something we can do to help them out.
8. SUPERINTENDENT CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Action (Consent): 8.01 All administrative matters delegated to the superintendent
that are required to be approved by the Board will be acted upon by the Board via
the consent agenda.
Ms. Melinda Cool moved to approve the superintendent’s consent agenda as
presented. Motion carried.
Action (Consent): 8.02 Authorize Vouchers
Resolution: Authorized vouchers, as attached hereto and made a part of the
minutes
Authorized Voucher Transmittals:
GENERAL FUND
Vouchers 280363-280452, 280465-280539 & 280552 in the amount of
$1,262,434.33.
GENERAL FUND PAYROLL
Warrants 477603-477621 dated June 30, 2020 in the amount of $1,708,183.24;
and electronic deposits in the amount of $3,442,519.30 for a total of
$5,150,702.54. Manual warrant 280362 for $3,743.53
CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND
Voucher 280453-280455 & 280540-280544 in the amount of $382,304.32
A.S.B. FUND
Vouchers 280456-280464, 280545-280551 & 280553 in the amount of $23,839.98
Action (Consent): 8.03 Authorize Agreement between the District and Central
Washington University for College in the High School Program

Resolution: Approved Interlocal Agreement between the District and Central
Washington University for College in the High School Program, as attached
hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.04 Authorize NWESD Science Materials Center Interlocal
Cooperative Agreement
Resolution: Approved Interlocal Agreement between the District and NWESD
Science Materials Center, as attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.05 Authorize NWESD Threat Assessment Contract
Resolution: Approved NWESD Threat Assessment Contract, as attached
hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.06 Approve Clarification of the Language in Policy F 3416
Medication at School
Resolution: Approved clarification of the language in administrative policy F
3416 Medication at School, as attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.07 Approve Hiring of Personnel
Resolution: Approved the hiring of personnel, per the list attached hereto and
made a part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.08 Accept Resignations and Retirements
Resolution: Approved resignations and retirements per the list attached
hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.09 Authorize Leave of Absences
Resolution: Approved leave of absences, per the list attached hereto and
made a part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.10 Authorize Personal Services and Supplemental Contracts
Resolution: Approved Personal and Supplemental contracts for July 2020, per
the list attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.11 Accept June 2020 Fund Balance Financial Statements
Resolution: Accepted the June 2020 Fund Balance Financial Statements, as
attached hereto and made part of the minutes.

9. BOARD CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Action (Consent): 9.01 The Board will use a consent agenda as a means to expedite
the disposition of routine matters and dispose of other items of business it chooses
not to discuss.
Ms. Melinda Cool moved to approve the board consent agenda as presented.
Motion carried.
Action (Consent): 9.02 Approve Minutes
Resolution: Approved minutes of the School Board Regular Meeting June 30,
2020, and School Board Special Meeting July 13, 2020, as attached hereto and
made a part of the minutes.
Information: 9.03 Review Board of Directors' Budget
Reviewed the year-to-date Board of Directors' Budget as of June 30, 2020, as
attached hereto and made part of the minutes.
10. ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 8:43 p.m.

__________________________________
School Board President

_________________________________
School Board Secretary

