Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes May 26, 2020
Generated by Tammy Bengen
Members present: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool, Noah Semu, Avneet Pannu
Meeting called to order at 7:01 PM
1. CONVENE
Information: 1.01 Call to Order
Mr. McLaurin called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and welcomed
online audience members. He noted this evening's meeting was being
held via Zoom Video Conference.
Present from the administration were Superintendent Linda Quinn,
Assistant Superintendent for Teaching & Learning Scott Brittain, Assistant
Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive
Director for Student Services Paul Douglas, Executive Assistant for
Teaching and Learning Kellie Larrabee and Executive Director for Human
Resources John Fairbairn.
Information: 1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
At this time, the Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
Action: 2.01 Adopted Agenda
The board considered adopting the meeting agenda.
Dr. Quinn requested that item 6.03, Adoption of Administrative Policy
No. 2418, be rescheduled to the board's June meeting. She noted the policy
was the model policy from Washington State School Directors'
Association. She said she would like refine it to meet the standards of
Ferndale.
Dr. Kevin Erickson moved to adopt the meeting agenda.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool
3. PUBLIC COMMENT [GC-3.3]
Information: 3.01 Public Comment Through Online Portal
Mr. McLaurin explained the format of Zoom in receiving public comment.
He said the board would not be receiving oral comments, however
participants could leave comments in the question and answer screen in
Zoom. The board will compile those and answer them at a later date.
Mr. McLaurin noted the board had received one comment. He read into
the record a letter from the Support Ferndale Schools Committee in

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes May 26, 2020
support of the levy. In the letter, the committee requested that the board
place the levy on the ballot again in November and that the rate of the
levy should be set at $1.50. (the letter is incorporated by reference)
No other comments were received.
Information: 3.02 Announcement about Recognizing Staff and Students
Mr. McLaurin and Dr. Quinn announced how the district is recognizing
staff who are resigning/retiring from the district, and also recognizing
Ferndale High School Seniors.
Mr. McLaurin said it was a longstanding tradition of the board to
recognize at its May board meeting those persons who are retiring and
also the outstanding students in the high school graduating class. Since
the district is not able to do that in person, the district is creating a video
to honor colleagues and students. The videos will be available on the
district website. Next, board members took turns reading the names of the
honorees into the record.
Board members congratulated the outstanding students as follows:
Sarah Sullivan, Student Services
Noah Semu, Choral Music
Zoe Warner, Band
Japnit Malhi, Social Studies
Jamie Mason, Agriculture
Megan Solomon, Culinary Arts
Trevor Bushnell, Mathematics
Brandon Nowak, Industrial Technology
Frank Harmer, Information Technology
Nicole Richards, Ceramics
Shayla Pitt, Art
Samantha Hagen, Orchestra
Josephine Scott, French
Megan Miller, Spanish
Sandy Ailon Cruz, ELL
Eleanor Scott, English
Morgan Joseph, Leadership
Cheyanne Lane, Indian Education
Ashley Thomas, Physical Education
Sarah Pringle, Science
Chelsey LaPlante, Sports Medicine
Alyssa Gammons-Reese, Yearbook
Michael Bernard, Marketing/DECA
Rome Williams, Theater

2

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes May 26, 2020
Board members thanked employees who were retiring/resigning as
follows:
Darlis Blomquist, Pre-School Paraeducator
Kim Cowan, Teacher
Georgia Dellinger, Principal on Special Assignment
Melissa Engels, Teacher
Cheryl Frazier, Teacher
Susan Gribbin, Family & Community Coordinator
Mark Hall, Principal
Tina McCammack, Bus Driver
Les Maxwell, Teacher
Scott Morrow, Teacher
Karen Reitz, Paraeducator
Mary Jo Saenz, Pareducator
Laura Scalzo, Skyline
Bette Ann Schwede, Teacher
Joel Wark, Teacher
4. FOCUS ON STUDENTS
Information: 4.01 No items
No items
5. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
Information: 5.01 Report on Capital Projects Bond
Board members heard several presentations with regard to the bond. The
first focused on the security upgrades the district is hoping to accomplish
during this coming summer. The second was a progress report from
Dykeman Architects on the design of the new high school. The third was
an idea in utilizing the CTE and other spaces for some specific programs.
For the safety and security vestibule project, Mr. Deebach said the district
has worked with Dykeman to put together a bid package. The bid opening
is scheduled for June 10. It is hoped the projects will be completed before
school starts in the fall. There was some discussion about the Skyline
project with regard to the additional cost and what barriers would be in
place for the central corridor. Mr. Deebach noted that the additional cost
for interior work is not significant and he expects it to stay within budget.
He said a decorative iron fencing and sliding gate would be placed in the
corridors. On the outside to the east, chain link fence would be used. He
noted panic hardware would be installed for quick evacuation of the site.
Ms. Riddle asked if this work included North Bellingham. Mr. Deebach
said no, nothing is planned except for the possibility of fencing.
At this time, Dr. Quinn noted that a student had been left off the list of
outstanding students that were recognized earlier in the meeting. She

3

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes May 26, 2020
noted that Rome Williams is the outstanding student in theatre.
Mr. Deebach introduced Tim Jewett who reviewed the details of the site
plan and drawings for the new high school. He said a lot of hard work has
gone into the project to this point. He said he is confident the school will
be delivered within budget. As he reviewed the plans, he noted that the
greenhouse and aquaculture projects would be bid as alternates on the
project.
In reviewing the CTE area, Mr. Jewitt said it included nine staff planning
areas. He said it would be a pre-engineered building of single structure.
Ms. Deardorff requested that the district keep in mind the needs of and
services for the native students: a permanent structure, Lummi Language
class, counseling services. Ferndale High School Principal Jeremy Vincent
assured
Ms. Deardorff these are being included.
Mr. Vincent presented a new idea for the CTE program. He explained
about the use of the current CTE building to house the Golden Eagle
Academy and Ferndale Virtual Academy Programs. This would facilitate
the move of the video/web design program from the CTE building to the
Performing Arts Center where the two academies are currently located.
Thus, more square footage would be available for CTE programs and an
additional classroom. He noted the district recently was informed that the
current CTE building was not eligible for state match funding until 2024
and that the building could continue to be used as an educational space.
Mr. McLaurin thanked Mr. Vincent for his presentation. He noted the
Bond Oversight Committee had discussed the CTE building at its last
meeting. He suggested the matter be referred to the committee in order for
the committee to provide a cost benefit analysis to the board.
Ms. Cool asked what funding the district gets for students in these two
programs. Dr. Quinn said the district receives full apportionment. Also,
Ms. Cool asked what it would cost to upgrade the CTE building for these
programs.
Mr. Vincent noted the programs would utilize two classrooms. The only
cost is a new furnace. Mr. Deebach noted the roof needed some work, but
not at a whole lot of additional cost.
It was the consensus of the board to refer this matter to the Bond
Oversight Committee for recommendation.
Information: 5.02 Update on What Ferndale Schools is Doing in Response to the
COVID-19 Situation

4

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes May 26, 2020
Dr. Quinn provided an update to the school board on what the district has
done in response to the COVID-19 situation. The district: 1) continues to
provide food service and childcare. Last weeks over 10,000 meals were
served. Childcare is up to serving 14. 2) Administered a survey to staff,
students, families. The overall theme from families is frustration: how to
get kids to do the work and manage it all. 3) Making plans for next year;
the seven county district have organized a county team and are
collaborating on options.
Ms. Riddle said the statewide task force she is part of is looking at
different options for delivering education next fall. Small group meetings
are being held this week, with reports back to the large group. Then the
options will be presented to school district.
Ms. Cool, addressing Ms. Riddle, asked if the options and changes would
require added work to the district and how the district was going to fund
such things. She asked if the state would be providing additional dollars
to districts. Ms. Riddle said that all the options would involve a lot more
staff. Once the small groups have had a chance to meet, we'll now more.
Dr. Erickson asked if, in the building of the new high school, the district is
looking at new models for learning. Ms. Riddle said there will probably be
some changes however not drastically different.
6. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
Action: 6.01 Adopted Resolution No. 2019R Approving Continuous Learning
Plan
Mr. Brittain and Dr. Quinn presented Resolution No. 2019R approving
Continuous Learning Plan for the board's consideration. Mr. McLaurin
noted that the superintendent was required by law to prepare continuous
learning plans and thus consideration of the resolution.
Mr. Brittain said the resolution is a model provided by iGrants. It is
needed due to the fact that the district will fall short two days of the 180
school days required, and also will not meet the 1027 average learning
hours. Dr. Quinn noted that almost every district in the state is choosing
this option. It will allow the district to continue to receive its
apportionment this year.
Lee Anne Riddle moved to adopt Resolution No. 2019R Approving
Continuous Learning Plan, as attached hereto and made a part of the
minutes.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool
Action: 6.02 Revised School Calendar

5

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes May 26, 2020
Mr. Brittain presented the revisions to the school calendar for the board's
consideration. He noted revisions are necessary due to the two snow days
the district experienced and to reflect the date of June 19 as the last school
day. June 19 was established by the state school superintendent.
Melinda Cool moved to revise the 2019-2020 School Calendar, as attached
hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool
Action: 6.03 Adopt Administrative Policy No. 2418 Waiver of High School
Graduation Credits
Please note, this item was postponed to a future board meeting.
Action: 6.04 Adopt Administrative Policy No. 6023 Capital Bond-Levy
Mr. Deebach presented Adopt Administrative Policy No. 6023 Capital
Bond-Levy for the board's review and action. He reported that the Bond
Oversight Committee recommended that the district have a debt policy.
He said the committee has not reviewed the policy. He said the model
before the board is based on a Tacoma School District policy.
Dr. Quinn said the district is governed by many laws and having a debt
policy is not required. However, she said the oversight committee believes
it is important. Ms. Cool asked why the policy was needed. Mr. Deebach
said it does provide for more oversight. Mr. McLaurin said it is a
framework for our process.
Ms. Cool asked about the notion of a finance and audit committee that
was mentioned in the policy. Mr. Deebach said a committee would need
to be created.
It was the consensus of the board to have the oversight committee review
the policy and provide a recommendation to the board prior to the district
adopting it.
Information: 6.05 Discussion About the School Programs and Operations
Replacement Levy
Board members continued their discussion about the School Programs
and Operations Replacement Levy ballot measure.
Mr. McLaurin reviewed how the school board got to this point. He
explained the failure of the February 2020 levy, the board's decision to run
it again in April but then COVID struck. The board decided to remove the
measure from the April ballot and place it on the November 3 ballot. At
this time, the board needs to discuss the rate and duration for the levy.
Mr. McLaurin further noted that a resolution placing the matter on the

6

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes May 26, 2020
ballot is not due to the county auditor until the first week of August.
Ms. Riddle said she appreciated the thoughts of the levy community
support committee. She supports the $1.50 rate and a duration of two
years.
Mr. McLaurin agreed with Ms. Riddle.
Ms. Cool asked if the district has made enough in cuts in case it receives a
reduction of 15-20% in state apportionment. Dr. Erickson said that is an
unknown at this time. He said he supported the committee's
recommendation of the $1.50 rate. He said he wanted to be respectful of
people's financial situations. Ms.Cool agreed with the $1.50 rate.
Ms. Riddle reminded everyone that Intalco was closing too and that
people are upset. She said that supporting the levy is one way to keep jobs
in Ferndale.
Dr. Quinn noted that the board could run a supplemental levy during the
second year of the levy.
It was decided that a resolution indicating the $1.50 rate and two year
period for the levy would be placed on the June 16 meeting for action by
the board.
7. SHARING [GC-7.E.]
Information: 7.01 Recognized Student Board Member
Dr. Quinn and board members recognized Student Board Member Noah
Semu for his service on the board. Dr. Quinn said Noah served a two-year
term on the board. In that time, he was thoughtful about the appraisal of
the school system and was an articulate voice for students. She thanked
Noah for his service and wished him the best as it transitions to Stanford
University.
Mr. McLaurin noted that Avneet Pannu will continue on the board next
year. The board will select a new student member at its meeting of June
16.
Information: 7.02 Student Board Members
Noah Semu said he had an interview with the Ferndale Record on
perspectives of how students are doing at this time. He thanked parent
Erin Gunter for taking pictures of graduates. He is meeting with
administrators and ASB members to plan graduation. He thanked the
board for giving him the position on the board. He appreciated getting
student voice involved. He learned a lot.
Information: 7.03 Elected Board Members

7

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes May 26, 2020
Dr. Erickson reported his son will start medical school on July 13 in New
Jersey.
Mr. Laurin expressed his appreciation to the board and administration for
using this new meeting format. He thanked Ms. Riddle for serving on the
COVID statewide committee.
Information: 7.04 Superintendent
Dr. Quinn noted she will get information to board members on their role
in high school commencement.
Information: 7.05 Executive Administration
8. SUPERINTENDENT CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Action (Consent): 8.01 All administrative matters delegated to the
superintendent that are required to be approved by the Board will be acted upon
by the Board via the consent agenda.
Ms. Cool asked if the board could receive the voucher information earlier
than the day of the board meeting. Mr. Deebach said yes and he would
make sure to inform the person who places that information in
BoardDocs.
Lee Anne Riddle moved to approve the superintendent’s consent agenda.
Motion carried.
Action (Consent): 8.03 Accepted Resignations and Retirements
Accepted resignations and retirements per the list attached hereto and
made a part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.04 Authorized Leave of Absences
Approved leave of absences, per the list attached hereto and made a part
of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.05 Authorized 2020-2021 Behavioral Health Agreement with
Whatcom County Health Department
Approved the Agreement with the Whatcom County Health Department
for Behavioral Health Services, as attached hereto and made a part of the
minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.06 Accepted April 2020 Fund Balance Financial Statements
Accepted the April 2020 Fund Balance Financial Statements, as attached
hereto and made part of the minutes.
Action (Consent): 8.07 Adopted Resolution No. 9-2020 Canceling Warrants
Adopted Resolution No. 9-2020 canceling General Fund warrants
numbered 273132, 273155, 274898, 279469, 279688, 279781, 477493, and

8

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes May 26, 2020
506659, and Associated Student Body fund warrants numbered 273942
and 279320.
Action (Consent): 8.08 Adopted Resolution No. 10-2020 Authorizing
Membership in WIAA
Adopted Resolution No. 10-2020 Authorizing Membership in WIAA, as
attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
9. BOARD CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
Action (Consent): 9.01 The Board will use a consent agenda as a means to
expedite the disposition of routine matters and dispose of other items of business
it chooses not to discuss.
Lee Anne Riddle moved to approve the board consent agenda. Motion
carried.
Action (Consent): 9.02 Approved Minutes
Approved minutes of the School Board 's April 7, 2020 Special Meeting
and School Board's April 28, 2020 regular meeting, as attached hereto and
made a part of the minutes.
Information: 9.03 Reviewed Board of Directors' Budget
Reviewed the Year-to-Date Board of Directors' Budget as of April 30, 2020,
as attached hereto and made part of the minutes.
10. ADJOURN
Meeting adjourned at 9:38 p.m.

___________________________________
School Board President

____________________________
School Board Secretary

9

