Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes—Community Forum February 22, 2020
Generated by Tammy Bengen
Members present: Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie Deardorff, Melinda Cool,
Noah Semu
Members absent: Dr. Kevin Erickson, Avneet Pannu
Meeting called to order at 10:01 a.m.
1. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
Information: 1.01 Shared Information About the Education and Operations
Replacement Levy
At 10:01 a.m., President McLaurin opened the public forum and welcomed
audience members. There were approximately 200 members in the audience. The
meeting was held in the large group area at Vista Middle School, 6051 Vista
Drive, Ferndale, Washington.
Present from the administration were Assistant Superintendent for Teaching &
Learning Scott Brittain, Assistant Superintendent for Business & Support
Services Mark Deebach, Executive Director for Student Services Dr. Paul Douglas
and Executive Director for Teaching & Learning Kellie Larrabee.
Mr. McLaurin provided an introduction of why this special meeting of the school
board was called. He explained that the Ferndale School Programs and
Operation Levy ballot measure of February 11, 2020 had failed. He said the
school board met in a special meeting on February 17, 2020 to discuss the levy
failure and next steps. One of the next steps was to hear from community
members. Thus, the school board decided to hold two public forums—one this
morning and another one Monday evening.
Similar to his comments at the February 17, 2020 meeting, Mr. McLaurin
reviewed the information about the pros and cons that the school board
considered in setting the levy rate and placing the measure on the ballot. He
reported that out of 145 districts that ran ballot measures in the February election
all but 12 communities approved their local levies, including the six other district
in Whatcom County. In Ferndale's case, the levy failed with 56% of the voters
saying they would not support the levy.
Mr. McLaurin's verbatim remarks are attached hereto and make a part of the
minutes.
At this time, Assistant Superintendent Mark Deebach provided a 30 minute
Powerpoint presentation to the school board and audience about the district's
current situation and what next steps by the board might look like. He spoke to
what budget cuts would be necessary to operate the district without the levy or
with a levy at the $1.50 rate. He explained that to maintain programs going

1

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes—Community Forum February 22, 2020
forward, the district was anticipating $13 million per year from the levy. He
noted that 84% of the district's budget is spent on personnel.
Note, the Powerpoint document showing the details of what Mr. Deebach
presented is attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
2. PUBLIC COMMENT
Information: 2.01 Received Public Comment
Mr. McLaurin recognized audience members who may have comments to
present to the board. The following comments were received:
Please note, we apologize for any misspellings of names or names we were not
able to hear.
Louisa Underwood: I moved to Ferndale 10 years ago to be close to
grandchildren. They have graduated and went on to Ivy League schools. I'm also
the coordinator for The Other Bank. All these cuts will cut programs for both
high and low students; for students coming with limited English experience. I'm
proud to live here. I was humiliated when the levy did not pass. The people
responsible for that are not in this room. Information about this levy was
nonexistent. There was no explanation of what was going to be cut. I saw why
many did vote for it. Do as much work as possible to explain what they are going
to lose.
Jon Mutchler: I have a question for Mark. Property taxes are the most
complicated in this state. What is the maximum mill rate you are allowed to
pass?. $2.5 or $2500 per student? What would it be?
Answer by Assistant Superintendent Mark Deebach: It would probably be about
$2.10 or $2.20. The district is capped at the lesser of the $2.50 or $2500. When our
assessed value went up, that increased us to the point where the $2500 cap
would kick in. We would be bumped down to a lower rate. We estimate the rate
for the ballot measure.
Bryan Fouquet, Eagleridge Elementary teacher: My wife and I moved to Ferndale
this year. We worked in other districts. Ferndale is an amazing district. It's
support to students and teachers, vision, programming, are all important. We
love that this district supports that. Even with $1.50 you risk making it harder for
students to be successful. Even 1-4 years out, it will be harder for district to
attract new teachers. Teachers will look elsewhere. All kids only get one chance
to go through school. You will be creating a decade of students who have had
less opportunities. Many will be less competitive. We need to support learners.
And strengthen the community. From students' perspective, they need

2

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes—Community Forum February 22, 2020
opportunities to be successful. They will not get that if the levy is not run at the
full amount.
Ben Wood, Ferndale resident: My property taxes have gone up 31 % in last three
years. We can’t afford for our taxes to go up significantly anymore and still make
ends meet. Why levy failed—because of the $2.50 rate. We just approved the
bond. It's a little too much for most of the voters in the district. $1.50 is a good
idea. Budgeting for money that you don’t have is not a good idea. Make budgets
based on what the voters are willing to support. $1.5 is what I can support. Run a
measure for four years. I'm hesitant to approve only two years because we'll be
back to where we are now. I would say run it at $1.50 for four years for stability.
Jen Roddel, Teacher of health and Tech TOSA position: I'm a grad of FHS and
have deep roots here. We need to talk about if we are going to rerun it we need
to tone down our teachers' speak. Make sure we know what will be cut. Use
language that everyone understands. FTE? What does that mean? I support 100%
rerun levy between $2.00-2.50. I'm a teacher and parent of high school student.
One is an athlete. Property taxes are hard, school laws are hard. We need to make
it as simple as possible to get the word out that this is a replacement levy. This is
what will be cut. I live here and pay taxes. I’m on the seniority list so know that I
have a job next year. There's a whole building full of people that won’t have a
job. My fellow colleagues. We need to pass the levy. We won't get the yes voters
out unless we make it clear what it is that they are going to lose.
Marcie Schneider, SPED teacher at Horizon Middle School: I focused on the
word “stability.” As I see the cuts I think about the loss of stability. For many of
our students, school is the only stable place they have. Students meet with
prevention specialists, native advisors, in after school study programs, and
school counselors work with students in crisis, SRO, level 1 threat assessments,
students are suicidal and scared. Staff provides a great deal of stability for our
students. To run at $1.50 does not seem to be doing justice to our community and
to our students. Our campaign was luke warm. We have to be responsible for
that. We did not reach out effectively to our voters. We left out businesses,
students and the Lummi Nation. We need to actively run a campaign at $2.50 to
do justice for our students. We would be building a system of injustice and
intolerable inequity for our neediest of students if we do not pass this at $2.50.
Jenny Kubic, Ferndale High School 28-year teacher: I married a FHS grad and
moved to Ferndale. He went through the vocational program in the 1970s. I
voted yes for the levy. I will continue to vote yes. I encourage you to run it again
at the $2.50 rate. It's supporting the future. My daughter got her first job by skills
she learned in culinary arts program at FHS. She's financially independent and
has a career working for a local company. I thank the community for helping us
toward that financial independence. She gained confidence through choir. She

3

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes—Community Forum February 22, 2020
has a partner who is an artist and former high school student. My dad suffered
from a long illness. On one occasion, 911 was called to respond to him. Of the
three EMTs who responded, two were FHS grads who I had as students. It was a
bright moment in a really sad time. I'm proud the kids from our community have
chosen a career to put back into our community. A yes vote is our give back to
our community.
Laura Friend, teacher Horizon Middle School and lives in Blaine: I've been a
property owner for two years and recently looked at my tax statement. School
tax amounts to 54% of my taxes. With that are other items such as EMS, library,
parks, etc. She recited a Confucius quote. We know what education needs. Less
than 40% turned out to vote. The community has always supported the levy. For
20 years I have been here and things have changed. If you say something loud
enough, people follow that. Our voice was not loud and consistent. We need to
activate our yes precincts. Lummi has 1000 voters but only 100 turned out. We
need to run it in April at $2.17. The public is already paying the $2.17 right now.
It will still mean a cut in current level of services. Yesterday three students talked
to me and asked me if I was safe from being cut and would be here next year.
Our students are worried about us. These are 11 year olds. We need an
aggressive yes campaign. Give them facts.
Joy Born, library para Ferndale High School: I've been in the community for 30
years—10 years as employee. Before that, I was an active volunteer who believed
in schools. All my kids have grown up and are successful. Not one of them is
from a cookie cutter because FSD has provided the diversity of education that
every one of my children needed. I am a member of this community first. I try to
be the best library manager that I can. I get a paycheck of the heart. All the other
teachers that I see that are getting a paycheck of the heart. Our riches are seeing
successful students. A student just told me he got accepted into Stanford. We can
pass a $2-2.50 bond if we believe what is happening in our schools. It's an eyeopener for the community. Get involved in every meeting we have. Let them
know what ideas we have to better budget the money. Be involved in children’s
education. I took it for granted and though of course we will pass the levy. We
have award winning programs. Teachers put their heart and souls into this. I
care about FSD schools. We need to be out talking to our neighbors. We don't
want to lose a lot of our heart and soul.
Gurpreet Dhillon, healthcare community: My wife is an administrator at the high
school. I came to Ferndale as student at Vista. There is still a lot that is missing.
When I saw list that Mark presented it was heart-wrenching. No support for
minorities. No sports. Think about the impact on the community—other aspects.
Students will be out causing trouble. I hear my wife talk about the kids who are
struggling. How many more kids will we have to fail? I work a lot with United
Way about breaking the cycle. Students grow up and help future generations.

4

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes—Community Forum February 22, 2020
Kids are a priority. Find other places to budget differently. There is so much
more in the high school than when I was there. That's progress. If we don’t do
the $2-2.50 we will move backwards. We want to entice the best teachers to come
to our schools. We need to do a better job of presenting. Look at the other
impacts to our community: kid wellness, crime and more.
Oralee S ?, parent with children in grades one and three: I'm pleased at the
quality of the teachers and music program in Ferndale. And the reading
assistants’ support. My older daughter was behind and the assistant. Helped her.
After three months, she is caught up. I see people on social media say that the
budgeting is being mishandled, but I don’t see that. This district cares deeply
about the quality of education for students. Unfortunately, there is an elephant in
room that is not being addressed. I hear a lot of no voters talk about distrust of
the district. Our issues are raw and are real. I hear stories about a bond that was
passed to repair Custer. It's my understanding that the school was in the worse
shape but that the money got redirected to something else. School staff should
talk to the voters about the situation and apologize for that. There's a deep level
of distrust of the district. This all happened before I was here. I'm thrilled with
the education my daughter is receiving. Restore trust for those residents.
Jim Holein: I've been 20 years in Ferndale. I have a daughter who's an FHS grad,
and a son who will graduate next year. Generally, I don’t like tax increases, and
how property taxes work. I voted for the levy. My gut tells me we are only going
to get the $1.50. We need to learn more about what’s going to be cut even if it
was $2.50.
Anita Tromp: I taught 11 years Ferndale and am now with ESD 189 as an
administrator. I want to thank you for the hard work you did. The levy is not run
with state funding or tax money. It's run by people writing personal checks.
There is a complacency among the yes voters. Just like with the bond and getting
it out a second time with more knowledge given to the voters. I support it at the
higher rate. I think you need to wait for the November election when more
people are voting. April is too soon. And in August everyone is gone. I'm
embarrassed as a Ferndale land owner that we didn’t pass this levy. It affects my
home value. Taxes went up, but not because of the school. They keep saying my
house is worth more. I will support this in any way I can.
Lucy Morse: I have been in Ferndale since 1995. My kids went through Ferndale
schools. I supported the levy at $2.50. Many people did not understand that their
taxes would remain the same if the levy passed. If people feel it’s a new tax, it’s
complicated. It's a replacement, not new. We're already paying for these things. I
don’t think we will convince no voters. They will be mad if it is run again. It's the
same as the bond. Get the yes vote out. Work hard. I don’t know who to go to to
work on the campaign. Someone has to coordinate that. Count on me this time.

5

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes—Community Forum February 22, 2020

Frank Comer: I went through Ferndale schools and will graduate this year from
Ferndale High. Education is a human guaranteed right. Everyone deserves an
education. There are minorities in our community. School is the only stability
some students have. If you vote no on the levy, it's a disservice to kids,
neighbors. If you vote no because you can't afford it, that’s fair. Then be down on
Olympia’s doorstep.
Esther ?: I'm on the PTO at Skyline and have two children. There was a lack of
information. We want this for our kids. We need to know what we are losing
without it. Before you answer the questions on the last slide, poll the community
about what they will support. Get answers before you make a decision.
Marilyn Rassmussen: I'm in the Class of 72. A property owner. I voted no on the
levy. We were told if we passed the bond you would cap it, but it came in at
$2.50. I've also heard rumors that ConocoPhillips offered to fund athletic
programs and that Jake Locker offered to fund the football field. If you can’t
accept these offers the why are you asking for more. People are mad you came in
at the top amount for the levy.
Sue Waggen (sp?): I have grandchild here. I believe in the public school system.
Ferndale has had an excellent system. Every young person I have meant has been
wonderful. I want to thank teachers. These are the folks helping with our future.
What’s coming next if we do not educate everyone? We need people in all
fields—PHDs, plumbers. Listen and hear why people voted no. We need to
address and answer those questions. Let people be heard even if they are rumors.
Kids are our future.
Kurt Ottum: I was laid off years ago from the district. The years at FSD made me
a much better teacher. Both of my children have graduated. You can’t put a price
on what the district has done. I remind you that you have a singular mission to
serve our students. I heard valuable remarks about budgeting, how the numbers.
should work. If we start talking about numbers first and other decisions later
than the mission is not being served. Consider what students need first. Voters
will know if that is not working. If we play with numbers, we are losing the
mission—what our students need.
Jake Locker: At no point did I offer that I would fund the football program. What
you had to say is valid. There are a lot of misperceptions. Some of the greatest
movements in history have been fought with humility. Extend an open hand. I
moved away from here and came back because I was proud of this place. I want
to give back the best way I can. Address the hurts with humility. There is an
elephant in the room—undercurrent of distrust. This needs to be addressed. This
might take a greater measure of humility than people may be comfortable with. I

6

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes—Community Forum February 22, 2020
don’t want to follow the political way the rest of the country follows. We do not
want to make enemies with one another over this vote. Be part of the solution.
Karina Deboer (sp?): I was a no vote. It was hard to mark the line no. It came
from lack of trust of administration. It's ironic that our superintendent is not
here. There's a lack of support. I have some deep hurts caused by her. It's hard
for me to vote yes. What I have learned this morning caused me to think—a
bridge needs to be healed. The elephant is we don’t trust what you do or what
you say you will do. I support teachers, paras. I need to see more from you and
more effort in follow through and healing some of these hurts and being present
and being an active participant in our community. Her decisions are directly
impacting our kids, but she is absent.
Answer by Board Member Melinda Cool: The superintendent could not be
here today. The board is asking for input. We are the boss of Linda. Linda
will be here on Monday night. If you have something to say please let us
know.
Lance Dietlein: I lived in Washington for three years. Your communication plan
was remiss. My wife is a teacher. She didn’t have the information that was
disclosed today to get information out to voters. I voted yes. If I had info I could
have influenced others. I'm empathetic to no voters. We need to help them, all of
us, about where the current levy is, where the impact is going to be. We need a
good communication plan going forward. Look at this in April. If we don’t, there
will be a lack of vision going into the future. The level to take the vote at is
interesting. How it will impact voters in their taxes. I challenge the school system
to share how you have been fiscally responsible. I work in corporate American
and have gone through restructuring. We have to demonstrate to our
shareholders that we are fiscally responsible. You can delegate authority but not
responsibility. Whatever you ask for, still demonstrate you are using our money
in a responsible way.
Dr. Luka Lewis: I live in Blaine and work at Whatcom Community College as the
vice president of Student Services. I'm a FSD 1995 graduate. My parents are Ted
and Margie Lewis. I moved away for 20 years, came back in 2015. In coming
back, I observed things have changed remarkably. Look at perspectives of the
value of education. Listen to those. Some questions to think about. I'm Curious
about what’s working within the district that can be leveraged—partnerships
and opportunities out there; what is not working and that the district needs to
stop doing. Who is not here at the table? Those insights and perspectives are
missing. Is this the sentiment of the community or is there something else
missing about the way people feel about the school district? We need to see the
revenue side as to how the district is collecting revenue.

7

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes—Community Forum February 22, 2020
Did not state name: I hear we will need to make cuts even if the $2.5 gets
approved. The counselor cuts, Native and Latinx cuts. I chose Ferndale for my
niece who is an at-risk youth because Ferndale had the resources. What will it be
like for students and parents who won’t have those supports? Emotional
supports being gone will be detrimental to them.
Bayla Bailey: I'm a sub paraed at Cascadia Elementary. I have middle school
boys. I'm a mother and community member. This is heartbreaking. I have seen
what is needed in our schools. Children love this community. I brought my kids
here today so they are aware of what's happening. I work two jobs. Kids are our
future. If we can’t provide for them, it is heartbreaking. I sub at FHS, and am
amazed at what they offer. I hope we can give our community the answers they
need. Support each other. I want to be a part of the community and part of those
kids lives. I don't get paid a lot of money; I get paid in hugs. I know how
important staff is of the district and how we provide for all of these kids.
Nancy Knapp: What are we paying now on the levy? $2.5 levy we are talking
about?
Answer by Assistant Superintendent Mark Deebach: For the current year,
it is $2.17. At $2.50 the increase is 33 cents. Because of the way we are
allowed to collect, it will likely trigger the $2500 rule. $2.50 is the
maximum rate under the current rules. More likely than not, it will end up
around the $2.17 rate.
Did not state name: I want to thank the people who may not be yes voters.
Kudos to the student who spoke. I encourage us to remember that although we
have past hurts, this is for our kids now. Regardless of what happened 5, 10 and
more years ago. Looking at tremendous cuts for kids. I really want to press upon
people that kids are going to suffer here. Please put past issues aside. Come
together and figure out how to make it work. We'll lose people from community
because it’s not standing up for our future.
Mark Deebach: About the Custer bond money, upon further investigation when
we went to do that work, we didn't have enough money to do the necessary
work. There was $3 million in the bond for the work. $1 million of that was spent
on architecture plans to rebuild the school. That bond failed twice in 2008. $1
million was spent on updating the facility. $1 million is still in the bank waiting
for work we know will be needed at Custer. It was spent differently than what
was stated in the bond. Sorry about that.

8

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes—Community Forum February 22, 2020
No further comments were received. Mr. McLaurin thanked audience members for
their attendance and input. He encouraged those who had additional comments to
contact board members or the district office. Contact information is available on the
district’s website. Mr. McLaurin noted the board would hold another forum on the
same topic on Monday, February 24, 2020 and a regular board meeting on Tuesday,
February 25, 2020.
Mr. McLaurin adjourned the forum at 11:54 a.m.

___________________________________
School Board President

____________________________
School Board Secretary

9

