Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes June 1, 2020
Generated by Tammy Bengen
Members present: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool
Meeting called to order at 7:02 PM
1. CONVENE
Information: 1.01 Call to Order
Mr. McLaurin called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. and welcomed
online audience members. He noted this evening's meeting was being
held via Zoom Video Conference.
Present from the administration were Superintendent Linda Quinn,
Assistant Superintendent for Teaching & Learning Scott Brittain, Assistant
Superintendent for Business & Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive
Director for Student Services Paul Douglas, Executive Assistant for
Teaching and Learning Kellie Larrabee and Executive Director for Human
Resources John Fairbairn.
Information: 1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
At this time, the Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
Action: 2.01 Adopt Agenda
Lee Anne Riddle moved to adopt the meeting agenda.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle,
Jessie Deardorff, Melinda Cool
3. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
Action: 3.01 Approval of Reduction in Force due to Levy Failure
Mr. McLaurin noted the board would be considering one item on the
agenda this evening—the reduction in force of classified employees.
Dr. Quinn presented two lists of employees who were being reduced in
force—one for classified employees, those who do not possess a teaching
certificate; and one for certificated employees. She noted the only list the
board will take action on is the one for classified employees. She said the
school board already approved the reduction in staff of the certificated
group when it approved the minimum education program in March.
Further she noted the lists do not represent all of the folks who are losing
their jobs. They do not include provisional or noncontinuing employees,
retirements, resignations or leaves of absence. Those types of items are
taken care of through separate resolutions in the consent agendas of board
meetings, as they have been in the past.

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes June 1, 2020
Mr. Fairbairn apologized to the board that he had not placed this matter
on the last board meeting agenda and, thus, this special meeting was
called.
Mr. Fairbairn reported there are 78 people on the two lists. Levy failure
impacts just over 100 people. The 78 are being laid off. Another 25
positions won’t be filled or won’t be filled until we have a better grasp on
the district’s monetary situation. Each person who is being laid off has
had a personal conversation with a supervisor warning them that this
might happen. Then another conversation saying it would happen.
Principals and directors have explained the situation with each person.
Mr. Fairbairn noted the list of certificated staff is quite a bit shorter than
the 26 FTE the board approved in March. Attrition influenced that.
Layoffs are by seniority and certification. Cuts have been made in both
support to programs and programs themselves such as counseling.
Administrators are broken into two groups. The board is approving the
classified one.
He added that these reductions were made by looking at the different
program needs of the district. For classified groups that met the following:
•Professional Technical employees were cut based on program cuts
•Public Service Employees (38) were cut based on program elimination
and cutbacks in service especially in the special education department.
The cuts do bring the staffing ratios inline with other districts in the
county. Cuts were made completely on seniority. Basically, everyone
hired after January 2019 was cut.
•Ferndale Administrative Assistants' Association was cut by 36 hours per
day—health room support and programs such as athletics and music.
Cuts were by seniority and went back to people who were hired in
August 2017.
•School Employees International Union was cut by 40 hours based on
seniority that went back to January 2018.
Mr. Fairbairn noted these decisions were made by the Executive Team. He
said it was a painful process.
Ms. Riddle wondered how these actions reflect the values of the board
and district. She said as things move forward to remember what our
values are and to hold them up. She said nobody likes what's happening
and some of our most vulnerable students will be affected by these cuts.
Mr. McLaurin asked about the professional technical category. He noted
the cuts of Ferndale Community Coordinators, Native American advisor
and Latinx advisor. He asked why so many of these employees were being
cut. Dr. Quinn said they were all cut in order to get to the amount that the
district needed. She said everything was cut from our equity agenda. Only

2

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes June 1, 2020
staff were kept that the district needs to meet legal and contractual
requirements. This doesn't necessarily represent the values of the board.
Ms. Deardorff asked if employees who are being laid off get assistance.
Dr. Quinn said they are eligible for unemployment and the district will do
everything it can do to assist employees.
Mr. McLaurin noted that 84% of the district's budget is personnel. The
only way to make reductions is to reduce the number we employ. The cuts
are projects at $7.2 million for 2021 and $13 million for each subsequent
year.
Ms. Cool asked what the FTE count totaled for the cuts. Mr. Fairbairn said
he does have the figure for classified staff. All of the certificated staff are
full-time except one half-time counselor.
Dr. Erickson asked if the number of cuts assumes the district will not
receive any levy dollars. Dr. Quinn said it assumes the district will not
have levy dollars for 2020-21. It doesn’t take into account any other cuts
that might come from the state. She said the cuts are less that $7.2 million.
The district will make up the remainder from its reserves—about $1
million. She added that if the ballot measure doesn’t pass in November,
the district will need to have to go from the $7.2 million to $13 million and
will not have enough reserve to dip into by then.
Ms. Cool asked if the levy does pass will the district be able to bring back
some of the positions. Dr. Quinn said she could not promise that due to
not knowing what the state will do. She reminded the board that the state
made a mid-year cut in 2009.
Mr. McLaurin clarified that the district was required to make these cuts
because it cannot assume it will have the money moving forward. Dr.
Quinn said the district is required to have a balanced budget.
Ms. Cool noted that it was not the best option to run the levy on a
November ballot, but the district does not a choice.
Mr. McLaurin said on behalf of the board, it’s with deep sadness that the
board takes this action tonight. These are loyal, hardworking, cherished
employees of the district. He apologized about the district’s financial
situation. He was sorry for the disruption it has caused in employees’ lives
and those of the children and youth of Ferndale Schools.
Melinda Cool moved to approve the list of classified staff member
reductions, as attached hereto and made a part of the minutes.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Kevin Erickson, Andrew McLaurin, Lee Anne Riddle, Jessie
Deardorff, Melinda Cool

3

Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Special Meeting Minutes June 1, 2020
4. ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 7:34 p.m.

___________________________________
School Board President

____________________________
School Board Secretary

4

