Vashon Island School District No. 402
MINUTES of June 13, 2024
Presented for Approval on September 26, 2024
Board Members Present:
• Lucia Armenta – Chair
• Juniper Rogneby – Vice Chair
• Kaycie Alanis (arrived at 6:04 pm)
• River Branch
• Martha Woodard
Superintendent:
• Dr. Slade McSheehy
NOTE: Statements in these minutes are not taken verbatim, but are reflective of the intent
and/or content of the discussions. A recording of the meeting is available at
www.youtube.com/@visdpublicmeetings6034

Call to Order
Lucia Armenta called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm.
Dr. Slade McSheehy recommended the agenda be amended to include updated
minutes correcting last names.
Martha Woodard moved to approve the agenda as amended, Juniper Rogneby
seconded.
Voted, Approved, Passed, 4-0

Land Acknowledgement
Dr. McSheehy delivered a land acknowledgement.

Public Comment
Rhonda Hobgood
Asked board and district to increase recess time at elementary school to 90 minutes a
day.
Molly Matter
Supported longer recess. Supported a ban on cell phones during school hours.
Supported developing new curriculum that teaches indigenous perspective when
teaching the Oregon Trail. Supports district registering high schoolers to vote.

Two Students (names unknown)
Advocated for longer recess at the elementary school.

Superintendent Report
Vashon Schools Foundation GiveBIG Check
Invited representatives of the Vashon Schools Foundation (VSF) to present the “big”
check from the recent GiveBIG fundraising drive. VSF representatives noted goal was
originally $40,000 and final tally has more than doubled it. Thankful for funds and for
community support.
VISD Retirees
Dr. McSheehy honored the retirees from the district following the 2024-25 school year:
Linda Burns, Cece Chacon, Lisa Cyra, Frank Daniels, Julie Jaffe, Carrie Power, Jill
Reifschneider, Barb Van Eeckhout, Nan Van Putten.
Also recognized student board representatives.
Upcoming Events
• Senior Stroll – 11:00 AM
• Graduation moved indoors to gym due to potential inclement weather
• Car Parade on Saturday – June 15
• Last Day of School – June 18
• June 27 – Preliminary Hearing of Budget
• July 25 – Final Budget Hearing

Student Advisory Board Representative Remarks
Hazel Nielsen
Described recently held second student forum of the year at VHS and McM.
Kora Murphy
Will miss seniors dearly. Held a spirit week and pep assembly at high school to wrap up
year. Congratulations to spring sports teams that made it to state.
Nora LaVigueuer
Senior camp out tonight [proceeded to leave meeting to standing ovation].

Board Member Remarks
Juniper Rogneby
Have received lots of messages about expanding recess. Understands that current
board might not function like previous boards, but feels that feedback conversation with
public is robust and alive.

River Branch
Thanked community for holding them accountable and advocating for critical decisions.
Kaycie Alanis
Agreed with River and Juniper. Mentioned that multiple times she has been tagged on
Facebook and stated that she will not respond due to OPMA.
Martha Woodard
Acknowledged that lately board has spent much time talking about primary school, and
wanted to make sure that secondary schools are included in terms of discussions
regarding curriculums and budgets.
Lucia Armenta
Thanked everyone for coming. Interested in how individuals such as Molly can be joined
into committees for collaboration. Thanked VSF for the donation. Thanked retirees for
their services. Does not think it is healthy to engage in social media. If something needs
to be discussed, discuss it in the meeting.

Report
VISD 2024-25 Budget Planning / 2022-23 Audit Update – Kim Mayer, Amy Sassara,
Dr. Slade McSheehy, Joli Valentino, and Justin Lanting presented
Kim Mayer introduced Joli Valentino and Justin Lanting from the Puget Sound ESD who
helped present on the budget planning, QSCB loan, and audit update.
Audit is not done, not sure when it will be done, aiming for end for June. Key point for
budget consideration is that it depends no how audit comes out – ending fund balance
translates to beginning fund balance.
Auditors had conflicting schedules. All information and current statements are in their
possession, just waiting on final review. Audit looks good, not concerned about any
validity.
Explained QSCB loan and rebates.
Board members engaged in discussion about QSCB loan and rebates
Explained ending fund balance is required in order to project next year’s budget.
Board members engaged in discussion about binding conditions.

Discussion
Policy 6701 – Recess and Physical Activity – First Read

Dr. McSheehy explained this new policy is in response to a new law that mandates 30
minutes of recess time for all elementary school students. Noted that CES students
already receive that plus more.
Dr. McSheehy recommended to follow recommendation from recess advisory board or
feasibility study in regards to changing the policy.
Board members engaged in discussion about updating policy with current recess
minutes listed.
Board members engaged in discussion about timeline of feasibility study.
Board members engaged in discussion about financial implications of expanding
recess.
Lucia stated she would recuse herself because she is organizing and working on the
issue from the perspective of a parent.
Board members engaged in discussion about board protocols regarding recusals.
Board members decided to do a second read on the recess policy in June reflecting
number of minutes or recess currently provided to elementary students.
Instructional Materials Committee (IMC) Adoption Material Recommendations –
First Read
Dr. Stephanie Spencer presented on instructional material recommendations. Invited
teachers Lisa Miller and Nic Warmenhoven to speak about the process.
Board members engaged in discussion about math curriculum adoption and budgetary
costs of curriculum adoption.
Dr. Spencer noted next school year will be elementary and middle school science
curriculum adoption.
Board members engaged in discussion about streamlining curriculums between school
buildings.

Decision
International Travel – 2024-25 Japan Trip
Dr. McSheehy recommended to board approve the Japan Club’s international trip for
the 2024-25 school year.

Martha Woodard moved to approve and River Branch seconded the motion.
Voted, Approved, Passed 4-0 (Lucia Armenta abstained), 2-0 SAB

Public Comment
Rhonda Hobgood
Appreciated the discussion regarding the extended recess time.

Consent Agenda
Minutes
• May 9, 2024
• May 14, 2024
• May 23, 2024
Personnel Recommendations
Certificated
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Cristina Ramirez, Resignation, 1.0 FTE, VHS Teacher, Effective End of 2023-24
School Year
Julie Jaffe, Retirement, 1.0 FTE, McM Librarian, Effective End of 2023-24 School
Year
Per Lars Blomgren, Leave Request, 0.2 FTE, Teacher, Effective 2024-25 School
Year
Genevieve Metzger, Hire, 1.0 FTE, CES Special Education Teacher, Effective
2024-25 School Year
Ryan Block, Hire, 1.0 FTE, VHS Special Education Teacher, Effective 2024-25
School Year
Callie Buse, Hire, 0.6 FTE, McM Math Teacher, Effective 2024-25 School Year
Amanda Davis, Hire, 0.8 FTE, McM English Teacher, Effective 2024-25 School
Year

Classified
•
•

Kevin Dickerson, Resignation, 1.0 FTE, Director of Facilities, Effective June 19,
2024
Heather McMillen, Resignation, 6.5 hours per day, CES Paraeducator, Effective
End of 2023-24 School Year

Kaycie Alanis moved to approve the Consent Agenda and Juniper Rogneby seconded
the motion.
Voted, Approved, Passed 5-0

Adjournment

Meeting adjourned at 9:20 pm

Vashon Island School District No. 402
MINUTES of June 13, 2024
Presented for Approval on September 26, 2024

Approved as presented.
Approved as amended.

Lucia Armenta, Chair

Date

Slade McSheehy, Secretary

Date

