    Board Members Present:
Lucia Armenta – Chair
Juniper Rogneby – Vice Chair
Kaycie Alanis – Arrived 4:07 pm
River Branch
Martha Woodard
  Superintendent:
Dr. Slade McSheehy
  NOTE: Statements in these minutes are not taken verbatim, but are reflective of the intent and/or content of the discussions. A recording of the meeting is available at www.youtube.com/@visdpublicmeetings6034
    Call to Order / Approval of Agenda
  Lucia Armenta called the meeting to order at 4:03 pm.
  Juniper Rogneby moved to approve the agenda and Martha Woodard seconded.
Voted, Approved, Passed, 4-0
  Executive Session
Lucia Armenta adjourned the board meeting to an executive session at 4:04 pm to RCW 42.30.110(i) evaluate the qualifications of an applicant for public employment or to review the performance of a public employee. However, subject to RCW 42.30.140(4), discussion by a governing body of salaries, wages, and other conditions of employment to be generally applied within the agency shall occur in a meeting open to the public, and when a governing body elects to take final action hiring, setting the salary of an individual employee or class of employees, or discharging or disciplining an employee, that action shall be taken in a meeting open to the public.
  Board Meeting Reconvened
Lucia Armenta reconvened the board meeting at 5:35 pm.
  Land Acknowledgement
Dr. Slade McSheehy offered a land acknowledgement.
  Public Comment
  Jemma Langland
Spoke in support of keeping Lisa Radford’s position.
  TL (student)
Spoke in support of keeping Lisa Radford’s position.
  Sarah Merkel
Spoke in support of keeping Tier II math support.
  Board Member Remarks
  Lucia Armenta
Thanked her family, board member’s family, VISD employees at board meeting, and community who attended. Noted the proposals are not what people want to hear, but appreciated the input from community.
  Kaycie Alanis
Glad to be back in person, has been staying engaged while away. Noted budget process means that when cuts are proposed, individuals might leave to find other work before potential reinstatement can occur. Continuity of teaching/support staff is important for kids and their development. Feels reluctant to vote on budget before fuller picture emerges, but hands are tied because of VEA legal deadline on May 15. Comes to board meeting with open mind and hoping can come to what feels as the least bad option.
  River Branch
Has been clear in previous meetings about concerns re: budget planning. Continuing to listen and grateful for everyone who is here. Thinks advocacy speaks to strength of district and educators.
  Juniper Rogneby
Feels board punted by not making decision previous Thursday, having received the F-203 as requested and form is dense. Was hoping it would provide clarity, but reality is by end of meeting will have to make approval about staffing reduction that is hard to stomach. Iterated commitment to understanding how District got to his place. Reality of funding situation from state is not going to change soon, have to learn to live with what we have and think creatively about new sources of income. Have to think strategically about how District spends money. Does not want to go through same process following year.
  Martha Woodard
  As someone who has been in institution for some time, cannot promise that next year District won’t be in similar budgetary situation. Echoes Juniper concerns. Noted dollar per student from State since 1983 is less than it is now, factoring inflation. Stressed as community and board that District needs to try and find other approaches other than relying on taxes, levy, and state funding.
  Decision
  VISD 2024-25 Budget Reduction Plan
Dr. McSheehy agreed with Martha Woodard that District needs to look at what it has done and what it is doing. Noted it is not one-stop shopping that will right-size the District, and that complications keep coming in, highlighting last week when Dr. Stephanie Spencer notified board that Title I funding is $11,000 less than expected, but still expected to provide equal level of services.
  Dr. McSheehy invited Kennedy (Name) from Vashon Schools Foundation (VSF) to speak.
  Kennedy Leavens provided an update of GiveBIG campaign from VSF to help close funding gap. Goal was $40,000 and as of tonight, have raised $77,000. Thanked community.
  Dr. McSheehy highlighted the girls’ 4x200 relay team, who broke a school record that has been in place for 40 years.
  Dr. McSheey presented Options 1, 2 and 3 to the board. Noted Option 2 is starting certificated programming and what it was a beginning of the year. Option 3 eliminates any reductions in those programs. Options do not include the addition of $22,000 in extra VSF funds raised.
  Kaycie Alanis introduced new spreadsheet she created that has all proposed cuts listed out line by line. Asked to project document for board meeting.
  Board members asked questions about spreadsheet. Final conclusion noted that spreadsheet was Option 1 (all cuts) with corresponding budget implications for each individual cut.
  Board members engaged in a Q&A with Dr. McSheehy and Amy Sassara about budgetary process after RIF resolution.
  River Branch engaged in a discussion with Dr. McSheehy and Dr. Stephanie Spencer about cuts to the District Office and athletics programs.
  Board members discussed VEA deadline of May 15 for RIF resolution and the importance of making a decision.
  Dr. McSheehy said that with additional $22,000 raised from VSF, that would completely restore the Tier II classified PBIS Specialist. Option 2 delta would remain at $81,000 and that would restore Tier II and counseling positions to what they were at start of 2023-24 school year.
  Community member asked why spreadsheet cells appeared to not be populating correctly following changes from additional VSF donation.
  Board members engaged in a discussion surrounding Option 2, highlighting support by Budget Advisory Board and staff.
  Dr. McSheehy worked on updating the documents in Board Docs to reflect the real time changes proposed in the meeting for board members. Dr. McSheehy walked through the revisions and explained reductions if board members moved forward on option 2.
  Martha Woodard made a motion to adopt Option 2 with the recommendations from the labor groups and the BAB with the intention of restoration as stipulated by the BAB.
  Juniper Rogneby expressed she just wanted to vote on the reduction in force options for certificated and classified staff.
  Martha Woodard made a motion to adopt Option 2, Juniper Rogenby seconded the motion.
Voted, Approved, Passed, 4-0 (Kaycie Alanis abstained)
  Public Comment
  Kathy Hall
Thanked for filling PBIS Specialist. Made a statement in support of paraeducators, specifically number of paras at high school.
  Liz Lindstrom
Said District needs to have pull out models and the paraeducators necessary to support that.
  Adrian Williams
Asked a question about the food services director position.
  Heather Baldwin
Frustrated everyone was asked to take a salary cut and not just those making over $100,000 per year. No bargained groups should be asked to take a cut.
  Colby Gateman
Spoke to burnout factor for paraeducators. Frustrated to not see cuts to salaries of Director of Student Services and Director of Teaching and Learning. Alum and proud to work in the District.
  Whitney Rose
Asked that MSOCs be included in athletics data if board continues to examine it.
  NR
Asked about cost of WASA study.
  Adjournment
Meeting adjourned at 8:15 pm
 