Board Members Present:
Lucia Armenta – Chair
Juniper Rogneby – Vice Chair
Kaycie Alanis (5:05 p.m. Called on mobile phone to attend the meeting remotely. Arrived in person at 5:40 p.m.)
River Branch
Martha Woodard
  Superintendent:
Dr. Slade McSheehy
  NOTE: Statements in these minutes are not taken verbatim, but are reflective of the intent and/or content of the discussions. A recording of the meeting is available at www.youtube.com/@visdpublicmeetings6034
  Call to Order
Lucia Armenta called the special meeting to order at 5:05 p.m.
  Dr. Slade McSheehy recommended the board amend the agenda to include a new revised Addendum to the Superintendent Employment Contract and an updated Board Policy Form 2320F3 International Student Trips/Authorization to Travel for the 2024-25 Costa Rica Exchange program.
  Kaycie Alanis moved to approve the agenda as amended and Martha Woodard seconded the motion.
  Voted, Approved, Passed 5-0
  Executive Session
  Lucia Armenta adjourned the meeting to an executive session at 5:05 pm RCW 42.30.110(i) To evaluate the qualifications of an applicant for public employment or to review the performance of a public employee. However, subject to RCW 42.30.140(4), discussion by a governing body of salaries, wages, and other conditions of employment to be generally applied within the agency shall occur in a meeting open to the public, and when a governing body elects to take final action hiring, setting the salary of an individual employee or class of employees, or discharging or disciplining an employee, that action shall be taken in a meeting open to the public.
  Board Meeting Reconvened
  Lucia Armenta reconvened the board meeting at 6:02 pm.
  Land Acknowledgement
Dr. Slade McSheehy delivered a land acknowledgement.
  Public Comment
Rhonda Hobgood
Made a land acknowledgment
Commented on the Washington State recess law and recess practices at CES.
  Jenny Granum-McMurray Teacher
Read a letter on behalf of VEA regarding the 2024-25 VISD staff reduction recommendations 
  Lisa Miller -VHS Teacher
Passed on her public comment time
  Tim Johnson -Superintendent Vashon Health Care District (VHCD)
Commented on his concern of the impact on underserved students if counseling reductions are made in the 2024-25 school year.
  Kaycie Alanis conducted a conversation with Jenny Granum to clarify the documents VEA referred to in their public comment.
  Superintendent Remarks
Remarked on the current budget and reduction conversations with staff, Board Directors and community
Commented on succession process and future opportunities for the Student Board Representatives
Thanked staff in attendance for supporting their peers and acknowledged that their voices are heard and making a difference
  Student Advisory Board Representative Remarks
Nora LaVigueur:
SAB meet recently and discussed the process of succession and opening applications for next year
Will conduct another Student Forum with community partners that will be organized by younger SAB leaders
Planning a post High School event that will get advice from Seniors to pass onto under classman.  
  Kora Murphy:
Spring Break update
VHS Pep assembly was held prior to break
  Hazel Nielsen:
Commented on mobile phone restrictions for students at VHS. “Screenagers” film will be presented to VHS students
Lip sync battle coming up on the VHS schedule
  Board Chair, Lucia Armenta asked student reps to invite students of color to participate in SAB. Students commented on their efforts to diversify and increase participation.
  Board members conducted a Q&A with Student Advisory Board Representatives.
  Board Member Remarks
Martha Woodard
Remarked on the budgeting process that lands at the end of every school year
Acknowledged the VISD Library’s and certificated library staff
  Juniper Rogneby
Read an email that she sent to Dr. Slade McSheehy and Board Directors with her intentions and recommendations moving forward with the budget process and staff reductions and reorganization of district leadership
  Kaycie Alanis
Commented on communication styles of this Board of Directors with Dr. Slade McSheehy and other district leaders
Supported the email Juniper Rogneby sent to Board Directors and Dr. Slade McSheehy
Made recommendations for finding solutions to staff reductions
  River Branch
Commented on the policy for Board Directors not to make remarks during the public comment sessions during board meetings
Commented on the proposed staff reductions
Remarked the national conversation around school budgets and lack of sustainable funding
  Lucia Armenta
Supported the comments made by Juniper Rogneby and Kaycie Alanis
Thanked staff being here for long hours to attend Board Meetings  
Commented on some of the issues she would like to focus on in schools
Thanked Jenny Granum for reading the VEA letter publicly to the Board Directors
Remarked on finding sustainable funding sources  
Commented on Board Director communication with each other, staff and the community  
  Discussion
International Travel - 2024-2025 Costa Rica Exchange
Sarah Powell presented for a first reading
Dr. Slade McSheehy introduced Sarah Powell to present the International Travel - 2024-2025 Costa Rica Exchange for 1st reading as amended using the updated form 2032F3 International Student Trips/Authorization to travel.
  Sarah Powell presented recommendations for an exchange program with Costa Rica families following a every other year timeline to help develop relationships and continue to build the program and course work. Commented on the advantages of the program.
  VHS Students made comments on their experience in the Costa Rica exchange program that included language emersion and building friendships.
  Dr. Slade McSheehy invited Board Directors and Student Reps to ask questions.
  Board Directors and Student Representatives conducted a Q & A
  Dr. Slade McSheehy will include the International Travel - 2024-2025 Costa Rica Exchange on the April 25, 2024 on the April 25th board agenda for second reading and board action.
  VISD 2024-25 Budget Reduction Plan
Kim Mayer, Amy Sassara, Dr. Slade McSheehy presented, first reading
Slade McSheehy commented on the process of determining enrollment projections.
Commented on historical program reduction impacts and priorities and presented and explained Exhibit A -Program Reductions for Certificated and Classified Staff.
Reductions of Staff will be presented in the April 25th content agenda
Amy Sassara helped explain the proposed FTE reductions and process of identifying restorations of FTE.
Dr. Slade McSheehy remarked on the process for required board action on certificated FTE reductions that will be presented in the April 25th consent agenda.
Staffing adjustments and restoration planning will be revisited and an updated program reduction document will be posted for the public on Monday, April 22nd and presented at the April 25th board agenda for further discussion.
Kim Mayer said she had recently reached out to the PSESD for advice on current VISD staffing models and sustainable funding to strategize with state professional education leaders. Kaycie Alanis requested to attend those meetings.
Martha Woodard requested a reorganization of staffing at the Administration level to be included in the program reduction provided on the April 25th board agenda to help prioritize reductions district wide.
Dr. Slade McSheehy will reach out to his industry support leaders for their staffing model recommendations and bring that information back to the Board Directors. Board Directors said they will forgo having board meeting materials by Friday if necessary.
Vashon Schools Foundation is planning to target Library Sciences in their 2024 fundraising campaign. Marth Woodard made an ask to the public to help support the VISD by donating to the VSF.
Dr. Slade McSheehy summarized that he will provide the board more information on program reductions. Said that the board has some flexibility and authority to have a Special Board Meeting on May 9th instead of the scheduled Workshop and postpone taking action at the April 25th meeting and defer any action.
  Board Directors and Student Representatives made comments and conducted a Q & A throughout the presentation.
  Decision
Policy 5005 Employment and Volunteers: Disclosures, Certification Requirements, Assurances, and Approval
Amy Sassara presented for a second reading
  Amy Sassara reviewed the updated language in the policy and Dr. Slade McSheehy made the recommendation to approve the policy as presented.
  Martha Woodard made a motion to approve Policy 5005 Employment and Volunteers: Disclosures, Certification Requirements, Assurances, and Approval and Juniper Rogneby seconded the motion.
Vote/Approved/Passed 5-0 Student Advisory Board 3-0
  Addendum to Superintendent Dr. Slade McSheehy's Contract
Lucia Armenta and Dr. Slade McSheehy presented for a second reading as amended.
  Final contract addendum removes the 4.7% increase of base salary and will remain flat for 2024-2025. A 3% retirement annuity will stay in place and the experience stipend will transfer to the retirement annuity, effectively making the retirement annuity 6%. The Board Directors will continue to meet with Dr. Slade McSheehy to discuss contract details and timelines for future contract negotiations.  
  Board Directors made comments and conducted a Q & A
  Martha Woodard moved to approve the amended Addendum to Superintendent Dr. Slade McSheehy's Contract and Juniper Rogneby seconded the motion.
Vote/Approved/Passed 5-0 Student Advisory Board 3-0
  Public Comment
This was an opportunity for anyone in the audience to address any school related issue including any agenda items
  Mecky Chappelka, VESP Co-President
Commented on the proposed staff reductions and the effects on staff and students. Made recommendations on the process of determining those decisions.
  Lisa Miller, VEA Co-President
Commented on the proposed staff reductions and the effects on staff and students. Made recommendations on the process of determining those decisions.
  Jenny Granum, VEA Co-President
Commented on the effects of program and staff reductions.
  Board Directors made additional remarks.  
  Adjournment
Meeting adjourned at 8:55 p.m.