Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes February 28, 2023
Generated by Kris Newberry
  A video recording of this meeting can be found on the Ferndale School Board’s Swagit page.
  1. CONVENE
1.01 Call to Order
  Dr. Erickson called the meeting to order at 6:02 p.m.
  Present from the Board were Dr. Kevin Erickson, Melinda Cool, Peggy Uppiano, Steve Childs, Toni Jefferson, Jazzie Gonzales and Kwabena Ledbetter.
Present from the executive team were Superintendent Dr`. Kristi Dominguez, Assistant Superintendent for Business and Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive Directors of Teaching & Learning Kellie Larrabee and Dr. Faye Britt, Executive Director of Special Education Trina Hall, Executive Director of Human Resources John Fairbairn and Executive Director of Communications Celina Rodriguez.
1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
  1.03 Recite Land Acknowledgment
Mr. Ledbetter recited the land acknowledgment
  2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
2.01 Adopt Agenda
Ms. Cool moves to adopt the agenda as written.  Motion carries unanimously.
  3. OATH OF OFFICE
3.01 Swear in New School Board Member to Office
Dr. Dominguez administered the oath of office to Toni Jefferson.
  4. PUBLIC COMMENT [GC-3.3]
4.01 Receive Public Comment
Dr. Erickson read a statement regarding Policy 1400.
  Erin Gunter thanked the board for their service.  Ms. Gunter extended an invitation to the board to visit Vista Middle School. 
Colleen Harper asked that the time of the board meeting is difficult for families and wants the board to know that it does not represent the apathy or the true interest of the community.
Dam Pham spoke to the fear of the pandemic of the last three years.
Cindy Lauer is a proud graduate of Ferndale Schools and a member of the FEA.  She read a letter that was read at the January meeting.
Christina Rucker thanked the board for moving forward with a new director who values inclusion and talked about offering childcare at the meeting.
Shira Nari spoke to her research on transgenderism. 
Tami Alejandre spoke to misconceptions in teaching and meetings.
Mike Ford plugged the FHS musical Les Miserable. He spoke to removing barriers and building bridges so that good teachers and all students can thrive.
  5. SHARING [GC-7.E.]
5.01 Superintendent
Dr. Dominguez gave an update on her Entry Plan and the activities since last meeting.
  5.02 Student Board Members
Mr. Ledbetter spoke about attending the WSSDA Legislative Conference.
Ms. Gonzales really enjoyed the trip to Olympia to attend the Legislative Conference.
She also spoke to a pep assembly March 16th there will be an open house of Ferndale High School.  March 10th will be the Multi-cultural night at the high school. March 8th will be Middle School night.
Ms. Cool also mentioned that Kwabena was interview by King 5 while at the Capitol.
  5.03 Executive Administration
None at this time.
  6. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
6.01 Revise Operational Expectations Policy 8 (OE-8) Communications to the Board
  Ms. Cool remarked about adding student voice to the formation of committees and task forces.  Dr. Dominguez introduced the first student member of an advisory committee – Jazzie Gonzales.  Ms. Gonzales will be attending the Early Learning Task Force.
Dr. Dominguez asked the Executive team and student representatives for assistance in developing language for the indicators.
Ms. Uppiano inquired about developing a place where policy change ideas can be kept.
Ms. Jefferson agree a structure should be developed.
We will place this on the agenda at the next meeting with the new language for approval.
  7. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
7.01 Approve Revisions to Policy 1400 - Meeting Conduct, Order of Business and Quorum
Ms. Uppiano sought clarification regarding employee complaints during Public Comment. Mr. Fairbairn described the process as agreed upon by the Unions and Administration within their Collective Bargaining Agreements.  Taking employee complaints during Public Comment would be not be appropriate.
  Ms. Cool motions to approve revised policy 1400 as attached to and made a part of the minutes.  3 yays, 1 abstention, 1 nay Motion carries. 
  8. FOCUS ON STUDENTS
8.01 Review/Adopt Monitoring Report for Results Policy 2.3 (R-2.3) Academic Achievement Science
Ms. Cool motioned to accept the report as demonstrating reasonable progress. Motion passes unanimously.
It will be reviewed again next month if there are any changes in indicators to be made.
  9. SUPERINTENDENT CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
9.01 All administrative matters delegated to the superintendent that are required to be approved by the Board will be acted upon by the Board via the consent agenda.
9.02 Accept January 2023 Fund Balance Financial Statements
9.03 Accept Resolution No. 1-2023 Canceling Warrants
9.04 Authorize Vouchers
9.05 Approve Hiring of Personnel
9.06 Accept Resignations and Retirements
9.07 Authorize Personal Services and Supplemental Contracts
9.08 Authorize Leave of Absences
9.09 Resolution in Regard to Assistant Superintendent Duties
9.10 Approve Highly Capable Program Plan for Fiscal Year 2022-23
  10. BOARD CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
10.01 The Board will use a consent agenda as a means to expedite the disposition of routine matters and dispose of other items of business it chooses not to discuss.
10.02 Approve Minutes
10.03 Approval of Teachers Teaching out of Endorsed Subjects
10.04 Review Board of Directors' Budget
10.05 Receive Monitoring Report for Operational Expectations 3 (OE-03) Relationship with and Engagement of Community Stakeholders
10.06 Calendars for 2023-2024, 2024-2025 and 2025-2026 School Years
  Question was raised regarding the process to develop the school calendars.  Dr. Britt explained that it is a FEA negotiated process to develop the calendars.  The teachers vote and then it is brought forth to the Board.  Once it’s adopted by the Board, it is taken back to FEA to fill in more details such as graduation, early release days, etc. Discussion of approving the 2026-27 calendar next year so there is always three years of calendar approved. Ms. Jefferson mentioned that coordination with Lummi Nation would be important so that one school isn’t open when another isn’t. 
Ms. Gonzales asked about adding sack lunches on early release days.
Dr. Dominguez provided an explanation regarding Highly Capable program.  She would recommend a full review of the program next year particularly looking at universal screening.
  Ms. Cool motion approve both Superintendent and Board consent agendas as attached hereto and made part of the minutes. 3 ayes, 1 nay, 1 abstention.  Motion carries. 
  11. SHARING [GC-7.E]
11.01 Elected Board Members
Ms. Cool reported the last week was the best School Board Director week ever.  She shared about the Math Olympiad, appointing the new director and WSSDA Legislative Conference Day on the Hill and attending Les Misérables at the high school.
Mr. Childs welcomes Ms. Jefferson to the board.  He appreciates Kwabena and Jazzie’s trip to Olympia. 
Ms. Jefferson appreciates the welcome and so impressed with the student representatives.
Dr. Erickson remarked that Sarah Steele has indicated that she’d be willing to sponsor the county-wide Math Olympiad competition. 
We need to schedule study session for March, April May. We’ll send out a survey to see if we can find some common times.
Ms. Cool also clarified that student school board members are welcome at all of the meetings, except during Executive Sessions.
  12. REORGANIZATION OF SCHOOL BOARD
12.01 Reorganization of the School Board
Steve Childs motioned to elect Dr. Erickson as president of the school board for 2023.
  Dr. Erickson will conduct a roll call vote. 5 ayes, motion carries unanimously.
  Dr. Erickson will open nominations for the office of vice president. Nominations will be received.
  Dr. Erickson motioned to nominate Melina Cool as vice president of the school board for 2023.
  Dr. Erickson conducted a roll call vote. 5 ayes, motion carries unanimously.
  The Board will then decide who will serve as Bond Oversight Committee liaison.
Dr. Erickson recommend Mr. Childs continue in the position.  Dr. Erickson conducted a roll call vote. 5 ayes, motion carries unanimously.
    In June the board will need to appoint a new legislative representative.
  13. MEETING EVALUATION SURVEY
13.01 School Board Evaluation of the Meeting
Mr. Ledbetter reflected that there were good discussions that were meaningful.  Time was spent more focused on what school boards do and not micromanaging what administration does. Ms. Gonzales agreed and saw it as a united front.
  14. EXECUTIVE SESSION
14.01 The board will convene into an Executive Session for approximately 30 minutes to discuss real estate and legal counsel regarding possible litigation. No action will be taken during the session.  Recess @ 8:28pm
  Dr. Erickson reconvened briefly to recess for an additional 10 minutes.  At 9:10, recessed for an additional 10 minutes.
  The meeting was reconvened at 9:24 p.m.
  15. ADJOURN
Meeting was adjourned at 9:25 p.m.
      __________________________________                __________________________________
Dr. Kevin Erickson, President                                    Dr. Kristi Dominguez, Superintendent