Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes January 31, 2023
Generated by Kris Newberry
A video recording of this meeting can be found on the Ferndale School Board’s Swagit page.
1. CONVENE
1.01 Call to Order
Dr. Erickson called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m.
Dr. Erickson read a statement which included a reminder to the board to adhere to our own Code
of Conduct GC 7 and are actively investigating the actions that precipitated the questions
regarding board member conduct. He requested that everyone be kind and respectful to the
presentation of other opinions whether it be Board member, district employee, student or
community member.
Present from the Board were Dr. Kevin Erickson, Melinda Cool, Peggy Uppiano, Steve Childs,
Jazzie Gonzales and Kwabena Ledbetter.
Present from the executive team were Superintendent Dr`. Kristi Dominguez, Assistant
Superintendent for Business and Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive Directors of
Teaching & Learning Kellie Larrabee and Dr. Faye Britt, Executive Director of Special
Education Trina Hall, Executive Director of Human Resources John Fairbairn and Executive
Director of Communications Celina Rodriguez.
1.02 Recite Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.
1.03 Recite Land Acknowledgment
Mr. Ledbetter recited the land acknowledgment
2. ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
2.01 Adopt Agenda
Dr. Erickson recommends to remove agenda item 10.01 Reviews/Approve the Monitoring Report
for Operational Expectations Policy 12 (OE-12) Safety and add agenda item 10.02 Receive
Monitoring Report R-2.3 Science. Dr. Erickson further recommends that we postpone Agenda
item 12. Reorganization of the Board until we have a full board seated.
Motion carries unanimously.
Uppiano motioned to remove 13.02 Approval of Minutes from the Board Consent Agenda to
discuss separately. Motion carries.

Dr. Erickson moves to adopt agenda as amended. Motion carries.
3. SCHOOL BOARD APPRECIATION
3.01 Acknowledge National School Board Appreciation Month
Dr. Dominguez read the proclamation from the Governor.
6th Grade Leadership students from Vista read an appreciation statement for the Board.
4. PUBLIC COMMENT [GC-3.3]
4.01 Receive Public Comment
Dr. Erickson read a statement regarding public comment. The intent tonight will be to return to
the published policy.
Nancy Button: Filed a formal ethics complaint. Asked one board member recuse herself from the
selection of District 3 director.
Andrew Gustafson: Request censure of Ms. Cool
Dam Pham: Verified residency in the Ferndale District.
Tammy Alejandre: Spoke in support of her diverse students and appreciation of board.
Jennifer Roddel: Spoke regarding the safety of all students.
Amy Nylen: Representing Ferndale Education Association. Thanked the board for keeping the
district safe and affirm the need to enforce Board Policy 1400.
Jeanne Rosser: Gave the board an appreciation gift of a box of Cracker Jacks.
Paul Rosser: Spoke regarding undermining public trust through the new public comment policy.
Nyla Musselwaite: Reported that she was not solicitated to write about Nancy Button and
thanked the school board and for following the Covid protocol’s that were handed down.
Natalie Chavez: Spoke regarding policy 1400 and its current application.
Susan Prosser: Thanked the board for their service and listening.
Nahari : Comment on Covid vaccination and mandates.
Mike Ford: Spoke about the positive impact Ferndale Schools have had on his children.
Encourage the board to keep going and doing a good job.
5. EXECUTIVE SESSION
5.01 The board will convene into an Executive Session for approximately 30 minutes to discuss
potential litigation. No action will be taken during or following the session.
Dr. Erickson recessed into Executive Session 6:58 pm. At 7:28 pm the meeting was extended for
15 minutes. At 7:43 pm, Dr. Erickson extended for an additional 15 minutes. At 7:58 pm Dr.
Erickson extended for an additional 15 minutes.
The meeting was reconvened at 8:15 pm.
6. LEGAL COUNSEL

6.01 Attorney Discussion
Dr. Erickson introduced Sam Chalfant, general legal counsel to the school board. He has worked
with Ferndale for about the last 5 years. He opened it up to the board for general questions. Ms.
Uppiano asked about his availability to the board. Mr. Chalfant stated he is available on a
limited basis. He recommends proactive communications. She further inquired if a difference of
opinion occurs between the board and administration, how would it be handled. Mr. Chalfant
states his role is limited and it’s specific to giving the district legal advice on what the law
requires. Dr. Erickson asked for process clarification. Ms. Uppiano asked for clarification of
advice to employees. Mr. Chalfant said that he does not give legal advice to individual board
members because his client and obligations are to the District and not any one administrator or
Board member. Typically, the Board and administration work together to delegate responsibility
and usually communication comes through the superintendent. Communication can be requested
in writing or verbal.
7. SHARING [GC-7.E.]
7.01 Superintendent
Dr. Dominguez shared updates from the last month.
7.02 Student Board Members
Ms. Gonzales reported on the Student advisory committee meeting today. Invited the board
members to visit the high school.
Mr. Ledbetter, Coaches vs Cancer game last Saturday. Weather update regarding snow.
7.03 Executive Administration
8. MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
8.01 Review and Adopt Monitoring Report for Operational Expectations Policy 8 (OE-8)
Communications to the Board.
Ms. Cool suggested that we have student representation on every committee. Dr. Dominguez
also added that if a student didn’t sign up, the committee should be sure to seek student input.
Discussion of changing the committee process and making an intentional shift in process. The
theme of communication came through in the data collected by Dr. Dominguez.
Ms. Cool motion to adopt Operational Expectations Policy 8 (OE-8) as compliant with
recommendation of adding a place for a student voice. Motion carried unanimously.
8.02 Revisions to Policy 1400 - Meeting Conduct, Order of Business and Quorum
Modifications will be added to the consent agenda in February’s meeting.
Ms. Uppiano moved to put the approval of Policy 1400 on the Action Agenda section. Motion
carries.
9. FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS

9.01 Report on Capital Projects Bond
10. FOCUS ON STUDENTS
10.01 Reviews/Approve the Monitoring Report for Operational Expectations Policy 12 (OE-12)
Safety. This item was removed from agenda.
10.02 Receive Results 2.3 Academic Achievement - Science monitoring report.
11. SUPERINTENDENT CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
11.01 All administrative matters delegated to the superintendent that are required to be approved
by the Board will be acted upon by the Board via the consent agenda.
11.02 Approve Travel
11.03 Declare Equipment, Materials and Books Surplus
11.04 Approve Hiring of Personnel
11.05 Authorize Personal Services and Supplemental Contracts
11.06 Authorize Leave of Absences
11.07 Accept Resignations and Retirements
11.08 Accept December 2022 Fund Balance Financial Statements
11.09 Authorize Vouchers
12. REORGANIZATION OF BOARD
12.01 Reorganization of the School Board
This item will be postponed to a later date when all director seats are filled.
13. BOARD CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
13.01 The Board will use a consent agenda as a means to expedite the disposition of routine
matters and dispose of other items of business it chooses not to discuss.
13.02 Approve Minutes removed from consent agenda and moved to Board Action
Ms. Uppiano questioned the consensus Sargent of arms. Dr. Dominguez described the process.
Motion by Mr. Childs to approve the minutes. Motioned carried.
13.03 Review Board of Directors' Budget
Ms. Cool moved to approve the Board and Superintendent consent agendas, excluding 13.02
which was already approved. Motion carries unanimously.
Mr. Childs questioned approving the consent agendas that include items that have already
happened.
14. SHARING [GC-7.E]
14.01 Elected Board Members

Ms. Cool apologized for the tone she used with fellow directors. She also apologized for
summarizing the emails in the last meeting.
WSSDA Legislative Conference in Olympia will be attending. Spoke about a WSSDA bill
watch list she monitors.
15. MEETING EVALUATION SURVEY
15.01 School Board Evaluation of the Meeting
16. ADJOURN
The meeting was adjourned at 10:15pm

__________________________________

__________________________________

Dr. Kevin Erickson, President

Dr. Kristi Dominguez, Superintendent

