Ferndale School District No. 502
School Board Regular Meeting Minutes November 29, 2022
Generated by Kris Newberry
A video recording of this meeting can be found on the Ferndale School Board’s Swagit page.
Meeting called to order at 6:02 PM
1.
1.01

CONVENE
Call to Order
Dr. Erickson called the meeting was called to order at 6:02 p.m. Dr. Erickson adjourned
for a brief recess for 5 minutes. Regular meeting reconvened at 6:07 p.m.
Present from the Board were Dr. Kevin Erickson, Melinda Cool, Peggy Uppiano, Steve
Childs, Jazzie Gonzales and Kwabena Ledbetter.
Present from the executive team were Superintendent Dr. Kristi Dominguez, Assistant
Superintendent for Business and Support Services Mark Deebach, Executive Director for
Human Resources John Fairbairn, Executive Directors of Teaching & Learning Kellie
Larrabee and Dr. Faye Britt, Executive Director of Special Education Trina Hall, and
Executive Director of Communications Celina Rodriguez.

1.02

Recite Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.

1.03

Recite Land Acknowledgment
Mr. Ledbetter recited the Land Acknowledgment

2.
2.01

ADOPTION OF AGENDA [GC-4.7]
Adopt Agenda
Motion by Ms. Cool to adopt the agenda as presented. Motion carries unanimously.

3.
3.01

PUBLIC COMMENT [GC-3.3]
Receive Public Comment
Students from the FHS Veterinarian Sciences spoke about attending the National FFA
convention in Indianapolis, Indiana. They were able to visit Church Hill Downs which
included a special stable tour. Tony Torretta, teacher, spoke about the FHS Veterinarian
Science and his thankfulness for the support of the program.

Nancy Button wrote an opinion article on November 5 for the Ferndale Record. She also
commented on a school bus accident.
Alison Ford referred to last month’s reading of Dam Pham’s open letter to the District.
Requests the Board rehire terminated bus drivers.
Natalie Chavez referred to several national cases of health issues following COVID
vaccinations.
Robert Bystrom spoke to gender issues and cognitive dissonance.
Dam Pham referenced articles from the Atlantic.
Nancy Bergman continued with Mr. Pham’s report.
Paul Rosser referenced his military background.
Jeanie Rosser spoke about the season of advent and martyrdom.
Shira Nahari spoke about COVID mandates. Challenges the board to reinstate Dam
Pham, bus drivers and teachers with back pay.
4.
4.01

Superintendent's Announcements and Report
Announcements and Report
Dr. Dominguez finished up the school visits and spoke at the Ferndale Chamber of
Commerce.
Family Resource Center event – November 1st. There was terrific turnout.
December 14, we are hosting a Traditional Hispanic/Latino Season Celebration at the
Family Resource Center. Everyone is welcome.
Bond Update – Furniture has arrived and is being unpacked.
Updated the Inclement Weather procedure.
Ms. Uppiano asked if online schooling will be an option during snow days? Dr.
Dominguez reported that it’s an issue they wrestle with and in light of the poor internet
access, it is currently not available.

5.
5.01

MATTERS RESERVED FOR BOARD ACTION
Review Policy 1400 - Meeting Conduct, Order of Business and Quorum
Dr. Erickson described the need to update the procedure, that many of the current
practices are not in the policy.
A suggestion was made that the current practice of limiting public comment to three
minutes per speaker, 45 minutes total be added to the policy. Also eliminating public
comment at the end of the meeting, which is also not the current practice.
Ms. Cool motioned to modify policy 1400 to include a time limit of three minutes per
speaker with a total of 45 minutes total. Motion carried unanimously.
Mr. Childs motioned to change policy and correct the start time of the board meetings to
the current practice of 6:00pm start time. Motion carried unanimously.

Ms. Uppiano asked if an outside group could request to make a presentation to the board.
Dr. Erickson said the board would not be obligated to honor the request, but the board
could request a group present at a meeting.
Ms. Cool read Policy 1400 section E. Ms. Cool reported that while the board approves
personnel hires, it does not initiate the action. The board does not have the authority to
hire or rehire anyone other than the Superintendent. Ms. Uppiano stated that while we
delegate these duties to the administration, state law specifies that the Board is ultimately
responsible. That’s why the board is required to sign off. She also asked what would
happen if we did not approve personnel recommendations. Dr. Erickson suggests having
a study session with legal counsel on this topic.
Mr. Childs reiterates that there is an extensive employment process involving the union
prior to it being presenting it to the board.
Ms. Uppiano would also like to hear more about Whistle Blower Protection Act.
Dr. Dominguez spoke to the Coherence Governance Policy that guides the work of
district.
Mr. Childs sincerely states that the board are elected officials and are doing the best to
represent the community and trust that they are working on the behalf of the community.
Ms. Cool wishes to add the language to Policy 1400 D. “or harmful to children”.
Ms. Gonzales asked for clarification on the definition of too lengthy, defamatory, abusive
etc. Dr. Erickson discussed some differences between 1st amendment and free speech.
Ms. Cool stated that any board member can ask for a recess if they feel there is a
violation of the policy. The director can have an individual conversation with board
president about their concerns. She also referred to the Trevor Project.
Mr. Childs questions whether written comments can be reviewed prior to it being spoken.
Dr. Dominguez recommends that we can add this to the list of items we seek legal advice
on and report back.
Ms. Gonzales asked about if the student representatives would be involved in the study
session. Are the Student Representatives able to call for a recess as well if they feel the
policy is being violated? Kwabena said we should revisit these values going forward.
Ms. Cool motioned add the words “or harmful to children” to point D in Policy1400.
Vote: 1 for 3 abstentions. Motion passes.
6.
6.01

FOCUS ON DISTRICT OPERATIONS
Report on Capital Projects Bond
Mr. Deebach updated the furniture has arrived.

6.02

Review and Approve the Monitoring Report for Operational Expectations Policy 6(OE-6)
Financial Administration
Dr. Dominguez will report back on indicator 5.2

Dr. Erickson motions to accept Monitoring Report for Operational Expectations 6 (OE-6)
as in compliance with the comment of including hyperlinks where referenced. Motion
carries unanimously.
6.03

Revisions for Operational Expectations Policy 12 (OE-12) Safety
After reviewing the policy, it is the recommendation to move all language that relates to
social-emotional safety to policy R-4. Since this is an operational policy, it should relate
only to physical safety.
Bookmark policy R-2.4 for revision. The board agrees to accept the modification to split
out social-emotional safety.

7.
7.01

SHARING [GC-7.E.]
Student Board Members
Mr. Ledbetter reported on the state of the high school and leadership activities. He also
reported about the current upcoming weather front.
Ms. Gonzalez won her first chess match. Cascadia News interviewed both students.

7.02

Elected Board Members
Dr. Erickson received an email from Jessie Deardorff that she has resigned her position.
The board will appoint a person who will complete the term until the next election in
November 2023. Qualified applicants are required to live within the District #3 boundary.
Applications are due January 6, 2023. We will host a special session the following week
where the board will review the applications and select the new director.
Ms. Uppiano motion to put on the next meeting agenda to review the land
acknowledgment. Vote 3-1. Motion carries.
Ms. Cool remarked that her plans when she started on the board had changed due to
COVID but now seem to be rejuvenated. She wants to share thanks to Dr. Dominguez
for her school outreach. She has met with Ms. Gonzalez and is attending High-Five
Friday and visiting schools.
Mr. Childs wishes everyone a happy holiday.
Dr. Erickson reported he learned so much from the WSSDA Conference. He shared a
new favorite quote from a speaker “We are all custom made”. The Board received kudos
for the We Belong t-shirts.
Ms. Uppiano asked Dr. Erickson whether Board members will be required to complete
two equity training courses before the end of 2022. Dr. Erickson indicated that Board
members will be able to complete the coursework as more WSSDA classes become
available.

7.03

Executive Administration
Ms. Rodriguez read a submission by a staff member of a Belonging Award nomination
for Dr. Dominguez. Dr. Dominguez is not eligible for the award but thank Ms.
Rodriguez for reading it.

8.

FOCUS ON STUDENTS

8.01

Revisions for Results Policy 2.2 (R-2.2) Mathematics
Change language to show that we are making growth and not claim all students will
master the subject.
Language that we use here can also be applied to the different academic areas in other
policies. Dr. Dominguez that her team will do some wordsmithing to present at the next
board meeting that can work for all policies.
Motion to have the Executive Directors to develop language for the academic reports to
present at the next board meeting. Motion carries unanimously.

8.02

Receive the Monitoring Report for Operational Expectations Policy 10 (OE-10)
Instructional Program

8.03

Review and Approve the Monitoring Report for Results Policy 2.1 (R-2.1)
English/Language Arts
Ms. Cool questioned the number of assessments. Ms. Larrabee reported that each
assessment serves a different purpose. SBA summative State required assessment.
IReady is a diagnostic in nature assessment. ARC (k-5 curriculum) in on-going
curriculum. All assessments assist on MyPath so each student has individual learning
goals.
Ms. Uppiano asked if cursive writing is still taught. Ms. Larrabee reported that they do
work on handwriting but it’s not a core standard.
Motion by Dr. Erickson to affirm the District is making adequate progress and adopt
report as presented. Motion carries unanimously.

9.
9.01
9.02

SUPERINTENDENT CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]
All administrative matters delegated to the superintendent that are required to be
approved by the Board will be acted upon by the Board via the consent agenda.
Approve Travel
Approved travel.

9.03 Authorize Vouchers
Authorized Voucher Transmittals:
GENERAL FUND
Vouchers 287609-287733 in the amount of $326,406.34. Manual warrants 287607-287608 in the
amount of $678.05.
GENERAL FUND PAYROLL
Warrants 478226-478248 dated November 30, 2022, in the amount of $1,853,716.39 and
electronic deposits in the amount of $4,160,029.50 for a total of $6,013,745.89.
CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND
Vouchers 287734-287735 in the amount of $39,945.29.
A.S.B. FUND
Vouchers 287736-287763 in the amount of $31,492.01.
TRANSPORTATION/VEHICLE FUND
No November Warrants
9.04

Approval of Teachers Teaching out of Endorsed Subjects
Approved teachers teaching out of endorsed subjects.

9.05

Approve Hiring of Personnel
Approved hiring of personnel.

9.06

Accept Resignations and Retirements
Accepted resignations and retirements

9.07

Authorize Personal Services and Supplemental Contracts
Authorized personal services and supplemental contracts

9.08

Authorize Leaves of Absence
Authorized leaves of absence

9.09

Adopt Resolution No. 23-2022 Canceling Warrants
Adopted Resolution No. 23-2022 canceling warrants

9.10

Accept October 2022 Fund Balance Financial Statements
Accepted the October 2022 Fund Balance Financial Statements

10.

BOARD CONSENT AGENDA [GC-2.4]

10.01 The Board will use a consent agenda as a means to expedite the disposition of routine
matters and dispose of other items of business it chooses not to discuss.
10.02 Approve Minutes
Approved minutes of the October 25, 2022 regular meeting.
10.03 Review Board of Directors' Budget
Reviewed the year-to-date Board of Director’s Budget as of October 31, 2022
Motion by Ms. Cool to accept superintendent and board consent agenda items as
presented and made part of the minutes. Vote 3-1. Motion carries.
11.
MEETING EVALUATION SURVEY
11.01 School Board Evaluation of the Meeting
The student members evaluated the Board with an overall rating of 3 “Meets Standard”
on a scale of 1-4.
12. ADJOURN
Meeting adjourned at 9:30 p.m.

________________________________
School Board President

_________________________________
School Board Secretary

