DRAFT MINUTES OF THE REGULAR BOARD MEETING
BELLINGHAM SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS
October 10, 2024

1.0
1.1
1.2

1.3

1.4
1.5

OPENING ITEMS
Meeting Date and Location:
October 10, 2024 – District Office, 1985 Barkley Blvd., Bellingham, WA.
Call to Order/Land Acknowledgement
Mr. Benjamin called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. He acknowledged that this meeting
is being held on the ancestral homelands of the Lummi people and Nooksack tribe.
Roll Call
Present: Directors Douglas Benjamin (President), Camille Diaz Hackler, Jenn Mason
(Vice President), Katie Rose, Superintendent Greg Baker and Sheri O’Day (recorder).
Director Scott Ritchey was unable to attend the meeting.
Audience:
No public testimony was offered.
Superintendent’s Announcements and Report: Summary of Dr. Baker’s comments:
• We are well into the first semester of the school year. Dr. Baker and other staff
continue to brainstorm and meet with legislators regarding school budgets. The state
superintendent has shared his K-12 budget proposal. If the state superintendent’s top
recommendations were to be fully funded, it would solve approximately half of our
anticipated budget challenges. Governor Inslee will soon share his proposed budget,
and after the election when a new governor is elected, they will decide whether to
move forward with Governor Inslee’s proposal or make changes.
• U.S. Representative Rick Larsen toured the District Office this week and was able to
ask questions of staff regarding sustainability and other topics.
• Dr. Baker shared photos highlighting:
o The observance of Orange Shirt Day on Sept. 30 at several schools, honoring
the survivors of boarding schools.
o Staff participating in professional development opportunities at schools and
the District Office.
o Recent Promise stories:
▪ Early childhood staff member Stephanie Schroeder.
▪ High school career center staff.
▪ Bellingham High School tennis coach Steve Chronister’s 1000th tennis
match victory.
▪ The elementary bicycle program.
o Executive Director of Communications and Community Relations Jackie
Brawley will be awarded the 2024 WSPRA Learning and Liberty award.

•
•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

o High school homecoming celebrations.
o An orchestra event involving the three large high schools.
o Alderwood and Cordata elementary schools received new library books
thanks to each receiving a $5,000 Laura Bush Foundation grant award.
A new sport, girls flag football, will be added at the high school level beginning in
January.
The district is looking at allowing strategic, non-permanent advertising to generate
revenue. While Sehome High School is currently the only school with reader boards
capable of electronic advertising, the income generated will be shared among all the
high schools.
Dr. Baker shared updated drawings of the future Community Transitions building.
District staff continue to work with the City of Bellingham as it looks at the future of
the Civic Complex. Those plans will have an impact on the location of the new Carl
Cozier Elementary.
Dr. Baker shared photos of recent playground improvements at Cordata Elementary
School.
Kulshan Middle School recently held their first after school event on the new field,
and there will be an open house for the community to see the new field on Oct. 17.
The College Fair is tonight at Squalicum High School.
Monday, October 14, is Indigenous Peoples’ Day.
There are two monitoring reports, EL-1 and EL-10, on this evening’s consent agenda.

2.0

CONSENT ITEMS:
Ms. Mason made a motion to approve the following consent agenda items:

2.1

Approval of Minutes of the September 12, 2024 Regular Meeting and October 1,
2024 School Visit
Approval of Expenditures and Payroll – September 2024
EL-1 Monitoring Report – Expectations of Superintendent
EL-10 Monitoring Report – Race and Equity
Resolution 25-24, Transfer of Funds from Capital Projects Fund to General Fund
Department of Commerce Community Decarbonization Grants (#2324-252B)
Amendment to 2024-25 Whatcom Discovery Program Interlocal Agreement (#2425005A)
Bellingham Public Schools Foundation Agreement (#2425-073)
Microsoft Enterprise Services Work Order (#2425-074)
Soliant Health, LLC Client Services Agreement (#2425-077)
ScoCon, LLC Construction Agreement (#2425-083)
Active Internet Technologies dba Finalsite Order (#2425-085)
Cascade Bicycle Club Contract (#2425-087)
City of Bellingham – Easement Related to Cordata Parking Lot (#2425-093)
Personnel Recommendations
Personal Services Contracts

2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.14
2.15
2.16

Ms. Rose seconded the motion. Unanimous affirmative vote.

2

3.0
3.1
3.2

INFORMATIONAL ITEMS
GP-7.2 2024-25 Annual Board Agenda, Revised – general review.
School Board Directors’ Reports. Highlights of comments:
• Ms. Mason was able to walk onto the new field at Kulshan Middle School during the
open house. It’s so impressive and wheelchair accessible. The new school board
video is very heartfelt. The Happy Valley visit was great. She loves sitting in a
classroom and seeing the action. Principal Nick Hayes is a very impressive speaker.
• Ms. Rose agrees with Ms. Mason’s comments. The Happy Valley visit was a great
blend of presentation and classroom visits.
• Ms. Diaz Hackler attended the WSSDA General Assembly in September. The voting
did not go the way she expected, which is a good reminder that we are a large, diverse
group of people. The hybrid event this year went better than last year, with
representatives voting electronically. They finished in one day so did not need to
return on the second day. She suggested that the board consider submitting a proposal
for next year. While at Happy Valley she visited a music class and was impressed by
the teacher, and the students were very respectful.
• Mr. Benjamin was away for a good part of September, and he thanked Ms. Mason for
chairing the last board meeting in his absence. He attended the Happy Valley visit
and finds it interesting how different the format can be for each school visit. The visit
was calm, focused and timely, and the new efforts of showing the board the school’s
work on EDI was great. The school board video is amazing. He will likely share the
video when he presents at the WSSDA conference in November.

4.0
4.1

NEW BUSINESS
In light of the funding dilemma that districts are facing, Mr. Benjamin shared that the
board has expressed interest in taking some kind of action. There appears to be a desire to
either adopt a board resolution that formalizes the board’s viewpoint, or to write a letter
that can be shared with the community. He asked individual board members to give their
input on how best to proceed. While he is not here this evening, Mr. Ritchey has
expressed an interest in serving on a two-person board committee to make a
recommendation to the board. Ms. Diaz Hackler believes we would be remiss in our
duties if we don’t do something to share the board’s concerns. Many districts, not just
Bellingham, are or will soon be facing financial difficulties. She shared that WSSDA has
a YouTube channel with helpful videos. She is leaning towards the board drafting a letter
to the community. Ms. Mason thinks the board should adopt a resolution and write a
letter to the community. The resolution would satisfy the formal board position, while a
letter to the community would be more reader friendly. Ms. Rose agrees that the board
should do both. The benefit of a letter is that it can be an open call to the community to
join forces. After further discussion, all seemed to be in favor of preparing both
documents. The board will meet for a short retreat while at the WSSDA conference in
November, and Ms. Mason and Mr. Ritchey will then draft a resolution and a letter for
the board’s consideration. Ms. Rose believes there would be value in reaching out to
community partners and PTAs, with the hope that many voices will share the same
message. Mr. Benjamin requested that the minutes from this evening’s meeting reflect the
formation of a committee comprised of Ms. Mason and Mr. Ritchey.

3

5.0
5.1
5.2

CLOSING ITEMS
Board Assessment of Meeting: Ms. Mason assessed the meeting, with an overall rating
of 4 (commendable).
Adjournment: The meeting adjourned at 6:42 p.m.

Approved:

Douglas Benjamin, Board President
Attest:

Greg Baker, Secretary to the Board
Minutes approved:

4

