  Wahluke School District Special Board Meeting Minutes (Wednesday, August 28, 2024)
Generated by Cheryl Douglas on Friday, September 13, 2024
Members present
Craig Sabin, Maybeline Pantaleon, Luke Jenne, Nick Trejo
  Meeting called to order at 9:03 PM
1. Call to Order - 6:00 PM
Procedural: A. Recognize and Welcome Community Members
Luke Jenne called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm
  Procedural: B. Flag Salute
Luke Jenne led the flag salute
    2. Community Comments
  Discussion: A. Community and Staff Comments are limited to 3 minutes so that the planned business of the Board can proceed. Exceptions at other times may be granted by the Board president
Luke welcomed the community and asked if there were any community comments. No community comments.
  3. Minutes
  Action, Minutes: A. Approval of Minutes of the Special Board Meeting of July 23, 2024
Approval of Minutes of the Special Board Meeting of July 23, 2024
  Motion by Craig Sabin, second by Nick Trejo.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Craig Sabin, Maybeline Pantaleon, Luke Jenne, Nick Trejo

  4. Additions or Deletions to the Agenda
  Information: A. Additions/Deletions (if necessary)
Adding 6th grade girls to play 7th grade soccer. This will need official approval from the MCMSAA league. This will happen September 5th
  Action: B. Approval of the Agenda
Motion to approve the Agenda
  Motion by Maybeline Pantaleon, second by Nick Trejo.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Craig Sabin, Maybeline Pantaleon, Luke Jenne, Nick Trejo

  5. Reports/Presentations
    Information: A. GEAR UP Field trips - Michael Kantman
Michael Kantman presented sending the Jr. High GEAR UP to leadership Camp in Spokane. Approximately 28 students will be attending
  Information: B. NABE Conference - Chelsea Brannock
Daisy Pfeifer and Alice Jackola presented the NABE Annual Conference February 20-22 in Atlanta, GA. Wahluke was chosen to be a presenter at the Conference
    Information: C. Bethany Martinez, Migrant Director
Bethany Martinez presented her TBIP (State Bilingual Plan) for the 2024-2025 school year. Promoting an asset based mindset. Strengthen Instructional Practice. Provide Support for Educators. Engage Students and Families.
    Information: D. Principals 2024-2025 Goals
  Preschool: Olga Mendez
1 Promote Inclusivity in Learning
Why? To Ensure that every child’s unique learning style and abilities are identified and supported through individualized learning plans.
How? Regularly assess students' progress and adapt instructional strategies to cater to diverse learning needs, aiming for measurable developmental growth in each child. Ongoing whole child assessments, PLC in collaborations with PK/TK/Kinder, intervention supports, and SPED department. Meet Bi-monthly with kindergarten teachers from Mattawa Elementary during Professional Learning Communities (PLC) to discuss progress, share insights, and refine strategies.

2.Foster Strong Community Connection
Why? To Strengthen relationships between students, staff, and parents to build a collaborative and supportive learning environment.
How? Implement regular communication strategies, such as parent-teacher conferences and family involvement activities, to actively engage families in the educational process.

3. Dedicate to building a program-wide culture that supports children’s and staff’s mental health, social and emotional well-being, and general wellness.
Why? Fostering open communication on health and safety matters. It ensures the well-being of both children and staff promoting a healthy supportive environment. How? Offer regular professional development workshops focused on mental health awareness, emotional intelligence, and stress management for staff.Establish a buddy system and peer support groups for both staff and children to foster a sense of community and belonging.

Mattawa Elementary: Art Lopez
1. 2024-2025 Theme: BEE The Change: 🐝
a. Building Connections: We are stronger together, we will Bee 🐝there for each other. Let’s prioritize building strong relationships with our students, families, and each other. Together, we can create a sense of belonging and trust that fosters academic and social-emotional growth.
b. Excellence in Instruction: Our shared commitment to high-quality, tier-1 instruction remains central. By focusing on essential standards, effective teaching strategies, and data-driven decisions, we can ensure that all students are challenged, supported, and successful.
c. Engagement and Growth: Whether through our PLC process, interventions, or enrichment opportunities, our goal is to engage every student in meaningful learning experiences. Let’s embrace and Bee🐝 the change with continuous improvement in our practice.
d. Culture of Care: Just as bees 🐝 nurture their hive, we must nurture our school culture. Let’s continue to create a safe, inclusive, and positive environment where everyone feels seen, heard, and appreciated.
2. Improving Tier 1 instruction and the PLC Culture(process)
a.Focus on students becoming readers by June 2025
3. Engage, and empower parents/families to support student achievement by focusing on Parental Involvement and providing tools/resources.

Saddle Mountain: Kurt Hoffman & Anthony Voelker
1. Improving Tier 1 instruction and strengthening our PLC Culture with a focus on student learning (Keeping Score).
Units of Study
Small Group Instruction for Reading and Math
2. Include, engage, and empower families to support student achievement
Monthly PTO Meetings
4 Family events throughout the year (1 Per Quarter) and 1 At-Home Project/Grade Level
Unit Essential Standards Sent Home
3. Students as Assessment Partners
Student tracking their Own Progress of Learning the Essential Standards
Building Wide Student Self Check

Morris Schott: Chip Elfering
1. New Mission Engage! Grow! Excel!
a. Engaged in their learning, Engaged in Relationships, and involved in extracurricular activities.
b. Grow in their academics, social and emotional development.
c. Excel is to become excellent in everything we do!
2. Engage, Grow, and Excel in Tier 1 instruction with a Focus on Writing with an emphasis on Guided Language Acquisition Design (GLAD) strategies.
3. PLC culture where we work together to grow students learning and improve our practice.
4. Involve families in the student process to make sure the whole student is Engaged.

Keep Score!

Wahluke Jr. High: John Muchlinski & Michael Kantman
1. “Share Your Popcorn” - Sam Glenn (via Anthony Voelker)
Giving the best of who you are, where are, with what you have.
Not all kernels pop at the same time, some need more time.

2. Family Engagement
WJH PTO
Parent Nights; Dad Night

3. Student Accountability
Academics
Discipline

Wahluke High School: Cody Marlow, Ron Craig, Megan Gray and Phil Koestner

1. Improve academic outcomes.
a. OSSI - less than 5% of Multilingual made progress.
b. Interventions
2. Strengthen data-driven decision-making.
a. Data review protocols
b. Weekly student data review
c. Intentional team planning & assessment review (PLC)
3. Enhance social-emotional and behavioral supports.
a. Character strong during Warrior Time and Warrior 101
b. Vector courses for those ID’d through our screener
4. Parent Staff Organization - Parent Involvement - Evening events
5. Engagement, Excitement, Energy, Celebrations:

Sentinel Tech: Cody Marlow
1. Parent engagement
2. Graduation Rate
3. Establishing CTE with in Sentinel Tech
4. Developing project based learning opportunities
5. Provide

CTE: Ron Craig

1. Wahluke CTE department, looking to enhance opportunities for all students, will work to increase Dual Credit opportunities for students with post secondary schools by June of 2025.

2. Wahluke CTE department will work with local and regional employers to increase Work Based Learning opportunities for our students. These opportunities will include job interview opportunities, school based enterprises, opportunities for internships, apprenticeships and entrepreneurship opportunities.


Information: E. Gabby Chacon, Director of Finance
  FTE (full-time equivalent) enrollment for June 2024 was 2,299.84. This is an increase of 8.83 FTE from May’s enrollment of 2,291.01.
  JULY 2024
General Fund (GF) Ending Fund Balance: $3,335,862.98
Capital Projects (CPF) Ending Fund Balance: $305,233.41
Debt Service Fund (DSF) Ending Cash & Investments: $116,249.75
Associated Student Body (ASB) Fund Ending Cash & Investments: 374,606.15
Transportation Vehicle Fund (TVF) Ending Cash & Investments: $250,112.40
    Information: F. Superintendent's Report, Andrew Harlow
Andy Harlow presented his legacy for the 2024-2025 school year

1. WSD Mission: Every Student, Every Day

2. WSD Strategic Plan: continues to guide us in our daily decision making

3. Build stronger relationship between Buildings & Operations
a. Lead to better long-term planning, efficiency and customer service

4. Principals & Directors will continue to grow + live more in “Distinguished”
a. This is build on a “Culture of Trust” + “Growth Mindset”
b. As we continue to grow, our goal is to be “Distinguished” in more criterion
c. What could this look like for Teachers?

5. Take care of ourselves & each other
a. Better manage stress + eliminate toxic stress
b. No good to anyone if we aren’t taking care of ourselves
      6. Consent Agenda
  Action (Consent): A. Vouchers
1. GF Check Summary 7.26.24
2. ASB Check Summary 7.26.24
3. CPF Check Summary 7.26.24
4. July Payroll 7.31.24
5. ASB Check Summary 8.23.24
6. GF Check Summary 8.23.24
7. CPF Check Summary 8.23.24
8. August Payroll 8.31.24
  Resolution: Motion to approve Consent Agenda
  Motion to approve Consent Agenda
  Motion by Nick Trejo, second by Maybeline Pantaleon.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Craig Sabin, Maybeline Pantaleon, Luke Jenne, Nick Trejo

  Action (Consent): B. Personnel
1.  PSE New Hire: Estrella Martinez, ME Lead Cook; Alondra Machuca, SME Bilingual Parapro; Yanitzy Gomez-Aguilar, SME Resource Room Parapro; Marissa Magana, ME Resource Room Parapro; Shane Hattaway, SME Bilingual Parapro; Diana Gonzalez, Preschool Lifeskills Parapro; 
2.  PSE Transfer: Amelia Perez, ECEAP Floater (1 yr position) to ECEAP Preschool Parapro; Maria Ramirez Berber, Food Service to Transportation Lead Asst; Erica Macias, RR Parapro to Lifeskills Parapro; Rachelle Lopez, SME Bilingual Parapro to ME Bilingual Parapro; 
3.  PSE Resignation: Katie Ruiz, SME Parapro; Guadalupe Martinez Tlatenchi, Lifeskills Parapro; Valerie Ramirez Garcia, Bilingual Parapro; 
4.  24-25 Coaching Transfer: Connie De La Cruz, HS Asst Fastpitch to HS Head Fastpitch; 
5.  24-25 Non-Rep Supervisory Contracts: Carlos Morales, Manager of HVAC Systems/Maint Asst; 
6.  WEA Supplemental Contracts: College in the HS: Candi Siemens; Alice Jaakola; Donald Collier; Justin Hjelm; 
7.  Certificated Contract changes from Provisional to Continuing Status: Megan Aldrich; Tyler Mallory; Yesenia Martinez; 
8.  24-25 Coaching: Jennifer Arroyo-Molina, HS Asst Volleyball; Jesus Calzadillas, HS Asst Volleyball; John McPherson, JH Head Boys Wrestling; 
9.  Admin Supplemental Contracts: Ron Craig, HS CTE Director; Michael Kantman, JH CTE Director; 
10.  New PSE Position: Bilingual Parapro; 
11.  24-25 Supplemental Stipends:  List attached
12.  Sentinel Tech Principal Supplemental Stipend: Cody Marlow; 
  Resolution: Motion to approve Consent Agenda
  Motion to approve Consent Agenda
  Motion by Nick Trejo, second by Maybeline Pantaleon.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Craig Sabin, Maybeline Pantaleon, Luke Jenne, Nick Trejo

  Action (Consent): C. Field Trip Requests
1. GEAR UP staff will take 36 students and 3 Chaperones to the Water resource center in Spokane WA  and on a campus visit to Eastern Washington University in Cheney WA. Students will learn about different water careers and listen to laboratory staff and operators about what their day to day looks like. At EWU Students will get to tour the campus along with an admissions presentation and a student panel to learn more about the campus. 
Name: Water Resource Center & EWU Field Trip 
When: Oct. 9th, 2024 
Where: Spokane WA & Cheney WA
Cost: ~ $2317.45
- Cost includes a rough estimate of mileage, driver cost, and meals.
  This will all be paid out of GEAR UP funds
  2. GEAR UP staff will be taking 26 students and 2 chaperones to a leadership retreat designed to
focus on development of leadership skills, school culture and climate and the enhancement of
personal growth for participants. The event will be held at the Pinelow Park and Conference
Center, which is 30 miles north of Spokane. The retreat will be Friday, Oct. 18 through Sunday,
Oct. 20, 2024. The retreat will start at 3 p.m. on Friday and end at noon on Sunday. We believe
this retreat aligns with efforts by GEAR-UP to promote leadership skills for students. The
development of leadership skills will help promote college or career readiness for students. We
believe this camp will help foster those leadership skills in students.
Name: Pinelow Park and Conference Center
When: Oct.18 - Oct. 20
Where: Spokane WA
Cost: ~ $8,170.00
- Cost includes a rough estimate of mileage, driver cost, and meals
    Motion to approve Consent Agenda
  Motion by Nick Trejo, second by Maybeline Pantaleon.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Craig Sabin, Maybeline Pantaleon, Luke Jenne, Nick Trejo

  7. Business
  Action: A. TBIP (State Bilingual) Plan for the 2024-2025 school year
Motion to approve the TBIP (State Bilingual) Plan for the 2024-2025 school year
  Motion by Nick Trejo, second by Craig Sabin.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Craig Sabin, Maybeline Pantaleon, Luke Jenne, Nick Trejo

  Action: B. Goalbook Contract
Motion to approve Goalbook
  Motion by Maybeline Pantaleon, second by Nick Trejo.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Craig Sabin, Maybeline Pantaleon, Luke Jenne, Nick Trejo

  Action: C. Bancroft Agreement
Motion by Maybeline Pantaleon, second by Nick Trejo.
  Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Craig Sabin, Maybeline Pantaleon, Luke Jenne, Nick Trejo

  Action: D. Out of State Travel - NABE Annual Conference February 20-22,2025
Motion to approve Out of State Travel - NABE Annual Conference February 20-22,2025
  Motion by Craig Sabin, second by Maybeline Pantaleon.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Craig Sabin, Maybeline Pantaleon, Luke Jenne, Nick Trejo

  Discussion: E. Policy 6217 Electronic Funds Transfer - First Reading
    Discussion: F. Policy 6550 Capitalization Threshold for Leases - First Reading
    8. Adjournment
  Information: A. Adjourn the meeting
Meeting adjourned at 8:33 PM
  Information: B. Regular Board Meeting: September 24, 2024 6:00PM
    ______________________________________________       ___________________________________________________
Luke Jenne, President                                     Date               Andrew Harlow, Superintendent                            Date
 