      Arlington Public Schools
Board of Directors
Special Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, April 16, 2024
    Call to Order
Vice President Knapp called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm.
  Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance was conducted.
  Roll Call Attendance
The clerk called roll. Directors Erica Knapp, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Matt Dimond, Student Advisors Mariska Lebahn, Nathan Nichols and Superintendent Sweeting were in attendance. Director Mary Levesque was absent.
  Approval of the Agenda
Vice President Knapp asked if there were any amendments to the agenda. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the agenda as proposed.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Michael Kingman.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Erica Knapp
 
Public Comments
There were no public comments.
  New Business
A. Contract for Pioneer Elementary School Envelope Improvements
Brian Lewis, Executive Director of Operations, presented information regarding the Contract for Pioneer Elementary School Envelope Improvements. The scope of work includes:

*Removing and replacing existing roofing materials with new roofing and making roof decking repairs as needed.
*Remove and replace siding and trim materials as needed.
*Repair defective downspouts.
*Remove and replace defective vinyl clad windows.
*Remove and replace building gutters.
*Clean and repaint all wood or composite building siding, trim, and exposed structural steel components.
*Apply sealant and anti-graffiti coating to concrete masonry unit walls.

He shared that the project team performed a competitive bid process which resulted in 4 bids being submitted on April 9, 2024. The lowest responsive bid was $1,351,050 submitted by Woodridge Construction LLC. Contingent on board approval, the work is scheduled to begin on June 17, 2024 and will be substantially complete by August 30, 2024. Brian answered questions from the Board.
  Motion: That the Board approves the contract as presented.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Michael Kingman.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Erica Knapp

B. Reduced Educational Program for 2024-25 - DRAFT
Gina Zeutenhorst, Executive Director of Financial Services, shared that the district does not have assured financial resources to maintain its program and services at the present levels for the 2024-25 fiscal year. It is necessary to make reductions in the district's educational program for the 2024-25 fiscal year in order to maintain a level of expenditures within reasonably anticipated resources. She shared a DRAFT Reduced Educational Program for 2024-25 with the Board. There was discussion.
        C. Revised 2023-24 District Calendar 
Superintendent Sweeting presented a revised 2023-24 school calendar. She explained that due to lost instructional hours and one day lost resulting from inclement weather throughout this school year, revisions to this year's district calendar are needed. Instead of the last day of school being held on Friday, June 14, the last school day will now be on Monday, June 17, 2024. Friday, June 14th will be a 1-hour early release day, and June 17th will be a 3-hour early release day. She will be filing an Emergency Waiver with the Board of Education for the electrical outage January 19th resulting in the closure of Eagle Creek Elementary. 
  Motion: That the Board approves the changes to the 2023-24 District Calendar.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Erica Knapp

Adjournment
Superintendent Sweeting reminded the Board that the next meeting will be a Study Session and Regular meeting next Monday, April 22nd, at the regular time and place.
  With there being no further business before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 6:31 pm.
  Motion: That the meeting be adjourned.
  Motion by Michael Kingman, second by Matt Dimond.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Erica Knapp

   