  Arlington Public Schools
Board of Directors 
Study Session and Regular Meeting Minutes
Monday, April 22, 2024
    STUDY SESSION 
  Call to Order 
President Levesque called the study session to order at 4:00 pm.
  Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance was conducted.
  Roll Call Attendance
The clerk called roll. Directors Mary Levesque, Matt Dimond, Erica Knapp, Michael Kingman and Superintendent Sweeting were in attendance. Director Kelly arrived at approximately 4:10 pm. Student Advisors Mariska Lebahn and Nathan Nichols were absent.
  Approval of the Study Session Agenda
President Levesque asked if there were any changes to the study session agenda. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the study session agenda as proposed.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Michael Kingman.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  Overview
A. Strategic Goals
  B. District Norms
  C. Learning Outcomes for this Study Session
Superintendent Sweeting shared an overview of the learning outcomes and activities for the study session.
  Activities & Topics for Discussion 
A. Next Steps for Post Middle School Continued
Brian Lewis, Executive Director of Operations, continued the discussion of next steps for Post Middle School from the March 25th study session. Topics included: Contingency planning, election review, timeline comparison, levy projections and levy comparisons. Brian answered questions from the Board.
  B. Department District Improvement Plan Updates
Board members participated in a rotation activity where they met with cabinet members and expanded cabinet members to hear an update on the progress towards District Improvement Plan goals.
  Next Meeting & Adjournment 
President Levesque shared that the Board's Regular Meeting will convene following the end of this study session in the Board Room at 6:00 pm.
  With there being no further activities before the Board, the study session concluded at 5:32 pm.
  Motion: That the study session be adjourned.
  Motion by Michael Kingman, second by Matt Dimond.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  REGULAR MEETING 
  Call to Order
President Levesque called the regular meeting to order at 6:00 pm.
  Land Acknowledgement
Dr. Chrys Sweeting, Superintendent, shared a land acknowledgement recognizing that the area in which we gather is within the traditional territory of the Stillaguamish Tribe of Indians.
  Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance was conducted.
  Roll Call Attendance
The clerk called roll. Directors Mary Levesque, Matt Dimond, Erica Knapp, Michael Kingman, Sheri Kelly, Student Advisor Nathan Nichols and Superintendent Sweeting were in attendance. Mariska Lebahn was absent.
  Approval of the Regular Meeting Agenda
President Levesque asked if there were any amendments to the agenda. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the regular meeting agenda as proposed.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  Presentations/Recognitions
A. "Simply Amazing" Student & Staff Recognition - 2024
Superintendent Sweeting welcomed guests and shared the Simply Amazing staff and student nomination process. Each school administrator honored their "Simply Amazing" staff and students by reading their nomination write up and presenting the honorees with certificates.
  B. Student Presentation - Pioneer Elementary Presents: Health and Fitness Fitfolio Friday
Sarah Durrant, Principal, Brooke Ford, Health and Fitness Teacher, and students Eddie Razer, Paisley Cale, Ava Lewis and Reece Clement from Pioneer Elementary shared a presentation on Fitness Fitfolio Friday. The students demonstrated their skills in cup stacking, striking record, balance boards and the impossible shot. Board members attempted each activity. Students answered questions from the Board.
  Approval of Minutes
A. Study Session and Regular Meeting Minutes - March 25, 2024
President Levesque asked if there were any changes to the study session and regular meeting minutes of March 25, 2024. There were none.
  Motion:That the Board approves the study session and regular meeting minutes of March 25, 2024, as presented.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

B. Special Meeting Minutes - April 16, 2024 
President Levesque asked if there were any changes to the special meeting minutes of April 26, 2024. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the special meeting minutes of April 16, 2024, as presented.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

Public Comments
There were no public comments.
  Consent Agenda
The consent agenda included:
  A. Budget and Enrollment Reports
B. Personnel Report
C. Payroll Report - March 2024
D. Warrants
E. Out-of-State Travel Request - R. Harrington to Space Port Area Conference for Educators, Titusville, Florida, June 25-July 1, 2024
F. Overnight and Out of State Field Trip - SkillsUSA Early Childhood Education National Leadership Conference
G. Overnight and Out of State Field Trip - SkillsUSA Culinary National Leadership Conference
H. Overnight Field Trip - SkillsUSA State Officer Training Tacoma, WA
  Motion: That the Board approves the Consent Agenda as presented.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Matt Dimond.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

New Business
A. Donation from Arlington Education Foundation (AEF) - 2024 Spring Mini-Grants
Kevin Ess and Nicole Voshell of the Arlington Education Foundation (AEF), announced the recipients of the 2024 Spring Mini Grants in the cumulative amount of $10,334.92 and handed out certificates.
  Motion: That the Board accepts the donation of $10,334.92 from Arlington Education Foundation as presented.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

B. Financial Highlights of Current Budget
Gina Zeutenhorst, Executive Director of Financial Services, shared highlights from the currently budget as of March 2024 budget reports. Gina answered questions from the Board.
  C. 2024-25 Budget Development Briefing
Gina Zeutenhorst, Executive Director of Financial Services, provided the Board with information about the status of the budgeting process for the 2024-25 fiscal year. She answered questions from the Board.
  D. Adoption of Resolution 24-03 2024-2025 Reduced Educational Program
Gina Zeutenhorst, Executive Director of Financial Services, reported that the district does not have assured financial resources to maintain its program and services at the present levels for the 2024-25 fiscal year. As a result, it is necessary to make reductions in the district's educational program for the 2024-25 fiscal year in order to maintain a level of expenditures within reasonably anticipated resources. Resolution 24-03 2024-2025 Reduced Educational Program details the plan for approximately $2.8 million worth of cost savings, reductions, or increased revenues. The Resolution and Plan are now being presented to the Board for consideration of adoption. President Levesque asked the Student Advisor for his advisory vote on this agenda item. Nathan Nichols voted Yea.

Motion: That the Board approves Resolution 24-03 2024-2025 Reduced Educational Program as presented.
  Motion by Sheri Kelly, second by Michael Kingman.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  E. First Reading and Adoption of Board Policy 1400 Meeting Conduct, Order of Business, and Quorum
Superintendent Sweeting would like to revise the 2023-24 board meeting scheduled to include a study session in the month of July and a full-day workshop in August. Revisions to Policy 1400 Meeting Conduct, Order of Business and Quorum are being presented for first reading and adoption to enable the board meeting schedule to be revised.
  Motion: That the Board approves for first reading and adoption Board Policy 1400 Meeting Conduct, Order of Business, and Quorum as presented.
  Motion by Sheri Kelly, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  F. Second Reading and Adoption of Board Policy 3420 Anaphylaxis Prevention and Response
Dave McKellar, Director of Special Education, presented the revisions to Board Policy 3420 Anaphylaxix Prevention and Response for second reading and adoption. He answered questions from the Board. President Levesque asked the Student Advisor for his advisory vote on this agenda item. Nathan Nichols voted Yea.

Motion: That the Board approves for second reading and adoption Board Policy 3420 Anaphylaxis Prevention and Response.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

Informational Items
A. Superintendent's Report
Superintendent Sweeting wished Director Knapp a happy birthday. She shared that this week is administrative professionals appreciation week. Dr. Sweeting reported that she held the first Spring Staff Voices session at Presidents on April 18th, and staff turn out was better than in the past. Attendees expressed their concerns and shared ideas for the future. There are three more Staff Voices sessions coming up - April 23rd, 5:15 pm at Transportation, April 29th, 3:15 pm at Arlington High School and April 30th, 3:15 pm at Haller Middle School. 
  B. Legislative Update and Discussion
Director Kelly did not have anything new to report, but stated that it is very important to make use of these quiet months to continue to reach out to our legislators about the needs of our district. 
  C. Comments from Board Members
Topics of general interest were shared by the Board.
  D. Next Meeting
Regular Board Meeting

Monday, May 13, 2024 at 6:00 pm

Arlington Public Schools District Office Board Room
315 N French Avenue
Arlington, WA 98223
  Adjournment
With there being no further business before the Board, the meeting as adjourned at 7:58 pm.
  Motion: That the meeting be adjourned.
  Motion by Sheri Kelly, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Michael Kingman, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

   