    Arlington Public Schools
Board of Directors
Regular Meeting Minutes
Monday, August 26, 2024
      Call to Order
President Levesque called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm.
  Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance was conducted.
  Roll Call Attendance
The clerk called roll. Directors Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp, Sheri Kelly, Matt Dimond, Nicole Watts, Student Advisors Nathan Nichols, Deja Reed and Superintendent Sweeting were in attendance.
  Approval of the Agenda
President Levesque asked if there were any amendments to the agenda. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the agenda as proposed.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Nicole Watts.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp
  Approval of Minutes
A. Regular Meeting Minutes - August 12, 2024
President Levesque asked if there were any corrections to the regular meeting minutes of August 12, 2024. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the regular meeting minutes of August 12, 2024. as presented.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp
  B. Board All-Day Workshop Minutes - August 19, 2024
President Levesque asked if there were any corrections to the board all-day workshop minutes from August 19, 2024. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the Board All-Day Workshop minutes of August 19, 2024. as presented.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

Public Comments
There were no public comments.
  Consent Agenda
The consent agenda included:
  A. Budget Reports - JULY
B. Superintendent's Annual Report 2022-23
C. Personnel Report
D. Warrants
E. Out-of-State Travel Request - A. Dixon-Hundredmark to National Alternative Education Association Conference 2024, Tucson, Arizona - October 7-9, 2024
F. Out-of-State Travel Request - A Dixon-Hundredmark, K Brown and S Jordan to Wellness Together Conference 2024, Anaheim, California - October 9-11, 2024
G. Minimum Basic Education Requirement Compliance
H. Mental Health Counselors Cooperative Agreements Renewal
I. School Data Solutions for Homeroom for Educators Agreement
J. Everett Community College - College in the High School Access Inter-Agency Agreement
  Motion: That the Board approves the Consent Agenda as presented.
  Motion by Sheri Kelly, second by Nicole Watts.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

After the consent agenda was approved, Superintendent Sweeting introduced Sue Krause, the new assistant principal at Pioneer Elementary, whose position was approved in the personnel report.
    New Business
A. Report of Donations Approved by Superintendent - August 2024
Superintendent Sweeting reported that she approved a donation from SVLC Parent Club of a second basketball hoop for SVLC's new basketball court valued at $2,458.38 in August.
  B. Annual Program Compliance Report
Superintendent Sweeting shared that the District is in compliance with the program requirements outlined in Policy 2106 Program Compliance.

C. 2024-25 Interscholastic Activities Report
Superintendent Sweeting provided the Board with a report of the interscholastic activities for the 2024-25 school year.
  D. Financial Highlights of Current Budget - JULY
Gina Zeutenhorst, Executive Director of Financial Services, presented the financial highlights from the budget reports for July 2024. Gina answered questions from the Board.
  E. Highlights of Summer Programs 2023-24
Karl Olson, Director of Categorical Programs, and Marilee Herman, Principal of Arlington High School, shared highlights from the 2023-24 school year's summer programs. Karl and Marilee answered questions from the Board.
  F. Review of Policy 3241 Student Discipline and Attendance Briefing
Kerri Helgeson, Director of Equity and Student Well-Being, briefed the Board on Student Discipline and Attendance, Student Well-Being and Anxiety, Healthy Youth Survey Data and information on Vaping, Learning more about the Problem and Strengthening Families, for the 2023-24 school year per Board Policy 3241. Kerri answered questions from the Board.
  G. Second Reading and Adoption of Board Policy 2090 Program Evaluation
Kari Henderson-Burke, Executive Director of Teaching and Learning, presented for second reading and adoption proposed revisions to Board Policy 2090 Program Evaluation. A student advisory vote was taken on this agenda item, and both student advisors Nathan Nichols and Deja Reed voted in favor of adopting the revisions to Board Policy 2090 Program Evaluation.

          Motion: That the Board adopts Board Policy 2090 Program Evaluation as presented.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

H. Second Reading and Adoption of Board Policy 5411 Staff Vacations
Superintendent Sweeting on behalf of Eric DeJong, Executive Director of Human Resources, presented for second reading and adoption proposed revisions to Board Policy 5411 Staff Vacations. A student advisory vote was taken on this agenda item, and both student advisors Nathan Nichols and Deja Reed voted in favor of adopting the revisions to Board Policy 5411 Staff Vacations.

         Motion: That the Board adopts Board Policy 5411 Staff Vacations as presented.
  Motion by Sheri Kelly, second by Nicole Watts.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

      Informational Items
A. Superintendent's Report
Superintendent Sweeting reported that bargaining efforts are continuing. Tomorrow begins three days of professional development for our certificated staff, with all staff attending District Day on Wednesday, August 28th. There will be a student panel, the marching band will perform, and Gary Sabol will take a staff photo. Staff will have lunch on their own and then return to the BPAC, Haller or Presidents for additional professional development focused on culturally responsive practices, fostering a sense of belonging, and creating connections between staff and students. The first day of school is Wednesday, September 4th.
  B. Legislative Update and Discussion
Director Kelly attended an OSPI Zoom meeting last week, and shared a few proposed bills of educational importance that are being proposed for the next legislative session. The board can share their feedback about pending proposals on the WSSDA website. She provided the board via email a WSSDA publication of the bills being proposed.
  C. Comments from Board Members
Topics of general interest were shared by the Board.
  D. Next Meeting
Regular Board Meeting

Monday, September 9, 2024
Regular Meeting begins at 6:00 pm
Arlington Public Schools District Office Board Room
315 N French Avenue
Arlington, WA 98223
  Adjournment
With there being no further action before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 8:00 pm.
  Motion: That the meeting be adjourned.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Nicole Watts.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

   