      Arlington Public Schools
Board of Directors
Regular Meeting Minutes
Tuesday, November 12, 2024
      Call to Order
President Levesque called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm.
  Land Acknowledgement
Student Advisor Deja Reed shared a land acknowledgement recognizing that the area in which we gather is within the traditional territory of the Stillaguamish Tribe of Indians.
  Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance was conducted.
  Roll Call Attendance
The clerk called roll. Directors Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp, Sheri Kelly, Matt Dimond, Nicole Watts, Student Advisor Deja Reed and Superintendent Sweeting were in attendance. Student Advisor Nathan Nichols was not in attendance.
  Approval of the Agenda
President Levesque asked if there were any amendments to the agenda. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the agenda as proposed.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Nicole Watts.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  Presentations/Recognitions
A. Weston High School Student Presentation - Wellness Initiatives Available at WHS
Andrea Dixon-Hundredmark, Principal at Weston High School, along with students Ashton Thorne and Jadon Cordova, Counselor Katy Brown, CTE/PE & AAI Handler, Stephanie Jordan, and Mabel - Animal-Assisted Intervention in training, shared a presentation about the wellness initiatives available on the Weston High School campus, and the positive impacts they have on students. The guests answered questions from the Board.
  Approval of Minutes
A. Study Session and Regular Meeting Minutes - October 28, 2024
President Levesque asked if there were any changes to the study session and regular meeting minutes of October 28, 2024. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the study session and regular meeting minutes of October 28, 2024 as presented.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  B. Special Meeting/Event Attendance - Student Advisory Council Youth Mental Health Forum Minutes - November 6, 2024
President Levesque asked if there were any changes to the special meeting/event attendance - Student Advisory Council Youth Mental Health Forum minutes of November 6, 2024. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the special meeting/event attendance - Student Advisory Council Youth Mental Health Forum minutes of November 6, 2024, as presented.
  Motion by Sheri Kelly, second by Nicole Watts.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  Public Comments
There were no public comments.
  Consent Agenda
The consent agenda included:
  A. Budget Reports - August 2024
B. Personnel Report
C. Payroll Report - October 2024
D. Warrants
E. Grid Iron to Donation to AHS Football
F. Overnight/Out-of-State Field Trip - AHS Bands to Disneyland Imagination Campus/Festival: Anaheim, CA 5.15 through 5.18.25
G. Out-of-State Trip - A Henry to Accelerate: Academic Thriving and Lifelong Learning Conference - Chicago, IL 11.12 - 11.14.24
H. Instructional Materials and Programs Committee (IMPC) Members for 2024-25
 I. University of the Southwest College of Education - School Counseling Program Memorandum of Understanding
 J. 2024 - 2025 EvCC CTE Dual Credit Articulation Agreement
    Motion: That the Board approves the Consent Agenda as presented.

Motion by Nicole Watts, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  New Business
A. Donation from Arlington Education Foundation (AEF) - 2024 Fall Mini-Grants
Kim Deisher-Allen, President, and Board Member Nicole Voshell of the Arlington Education Foundation (AEF), announced the recipients of the 2024 Fall Mini Grants in the cumulative amount of $16,849.42.
  Motion: That the Board accepts the donation of $16,849.42 from the Arlington Education Foundation as presented.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Matt Dimond.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  B. 2023-24 Fiscal Year-End Report (F196) Financial Statements
Gina Zeutenhorst, Executive Director of Financial Services, shared a presentation that provided a summary of the detailed information contained in the state form F-196 that has been reviewed by the NW Educational Service District 189 and submitted to OSPI. Gina answered questions. Gina answered questions from the Board.
  C. Alternative Learning Experiences (ALE) Courses Annual Report
Karrie Marsh, Principal of Stillaguamish Valley Learning Center, presented an annual report to the Board providing documentation of ALE student headcount and full-time equivalent enrollment claimed for basic education funding; identification of the overall ratio of certificated instructional staff to full-time equivalent students enrolled in each ALE course; the certificated staff in each ALE course; a description of how the course supports the District's overall goals and objectives for student academic achievement; and results of program review and evaluation. Karrie answered questions from the Board.
  President Levesque recessed the meeting at 7:30 pm for a brief break. The meeting was reconvened at 7:35 pm.

D. Special Education Annual Update
Dave McKellar, Director of Special Services, and Brenda Wyman, Director of Learning Support, highlighted the Special Education special programs in Arlington Public Schools, and gave the Board an opportunity to ask questions about the programs being presented. Dave and Brenda answered questions from the Board.
  E. First Reading of Board Policies 3205 Sexual Harassment of Students Prohibited, 3206 Pregnant and Parenting Students, 5011 Sexual Harassment of District Staff Prohibited and 5012 Parent Family Marital Status and Pregnancy
Eric DeJong, Executive Director of Human Resources, presented for first reading proposed changes to Board Policies 3205 Sexual Harassment of Students Prohibited and 5011 Sexual Harassment of District Staff Prohibited, and new Board Policies 3206 Pregnant and Parenting Students, and 5012 Parent Family Marital Status and Pregnancy. He answered questions from the Board.
  F. Second Reading and Adoption of Board Policy 3432 Emergency Preparedness and Response
Brian Lewis, Executive Director of Operations, presented for second reading and adoption Board Policy 3432 Emergency Preparedness and Response. Student Advisor Deja Reed voted in favor of adopting the revisions to Board Policy 3432.
  Motion: That the Board approves for second reading and adoption Board Policy 3432 Emergency Preparedness and Response.
  Motion by Nicole Watts, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

Informational Items
A. Superintendent's Report
Superintendent Sweeting shared that there were many wonderful Veterans' Day tributes held across the district. She expressed her appreciation and thanks to the veterans in our community and Director Dimond for their sacrifice and service. She also attended a performance of "The Tempest" and mentioned that the Arlington High School students gave an awesome performance. Dr. Sweeting reported that it's playoff season for our fall sports, and that the Board will be attending the 2024 WSSDA Conference in Spokane next week. 
  B. Legislative Update and Discussion
Director Kelly did not have any updates to report, but stated that our district is making great strides in having legislators attend district activities and events. She feels that it is very important for them to hear our voice and see what we're doing.
Superintendent Sweeting shared that WASA Sno Isle 109 will be hosting a "Day on the Hill" event at Lakewood High School, Monday, December 2nd at 4:00 pm for local school boards to meet with their legislators. At this time, ten district boards have committed to attending the event.
  C. Comments from Board Members
Topics of general interested were shared by the Board. Superintendent Sweeting handed out WSSDA conference presentation and trip information to board members.
  D. Next Meetings
Special Meeting Event Attendance - 2024 WSSDA Annual Conference
November 20 - 23, 2024
Spokane Convention Center
334 W Spokane Falls Blvd
Spokane, WA 99201

Study Session and Regular Board Meeting

Monday, November 25, 2024

Study Session begins at 4:00 pm
Arlington Public Schools District Office Lincoln Room
315 N French Avenue
Arlington, WA 98223

Regular Meeting begins at 6:00 pm
Arlington Public Schools District Office Board Room
315 N French Avenue
Arlington, WA 98223

Adjournment
With there being no further action before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 8:31 pm.
  Motion: That the meeting be adjourned.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

   