        Arlington Public Schools
Board of Directors
Study Session and Regular Meeting Minutes
Monday, October 28, 2024
      STUDY SESSION
  Call to Order
President Levesque called the study session to order at 4:00 pm.
  Pledge of Allegiance
Student Advisor Deja Reed conducted the Pledge of Allegiance.
  Roll Call Attendance
The clerk called roll. Directors Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp, Matt Dimond and Nicole Watts, Student Advisor Deja Reed and Superintendent Sweeting were in attendance. Director Sheri Kelly joined the study session at 4:14 pm. Student Advisor Nathan Nichols was not in attendance.
  Approval of the Study Session Agenda
President Levesque asked if there were any changes to the study session agenda. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the study session agenda as proposed.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

Overview
A. Strategic Goals
B. District Norms
C. Learning Outcomes for this Study Session
Superintendent Sweeting shared an overview of the learning outcomes and activities for the study session.
  Activities & Topics for Discussion
A. High School - School Improvement Plans
Marilee Herman, Principal, Arlington High School, and Eric DeJong, Executive Director of Human Resources, for Andrea Dixon-Hundredmark, Principal, Weston High School, shared their high school improvement plans and goals for the 2024-25 school year. Marilee answered questions from the Board.
  B. Middle School - School Improvement Plans
Brooke Howell, Principal, Haller Middle School, and Leslie Olson, Principal, Post Middle School, shared their middle school improvement plans and goals for the 2024-25 school year. Brooke and Leslie answered questions from the Board.
  C. Stillaguamish Valley Learning Center - School Improvement Plan
Karrie Marsh, Principal, Stillaguamish Valley Learning Center, shared SVLC's improvement plans and goals for the 2024-25 school year. Karrie answered questions from the Board.
  D. Elementary School - School Improvement Plans
Bethany Belisle, Principal, Eagle Creek Elementary School, Colleen Van Belle, Principal, Kent Prairie Elementary School, Sarah Durrant, Principal, Pioneer Elementary School, and Jamie Miller, Principal, Presidents Elementary School, shared their elementary school improvement plans and goals for the 2024-25 school year. The elementary team answered questions from the Board.
  E. 2024 WSSDA Conference Presentation - Utilizing Perspectives for Informed Decision Making - Script and Speaking Part Review
Board members reviewed the script and their speaking parts for the presentation entitled "Utilizing Perspectives for Informed Decision Making" for the WSSDA Annual Conference on Thursday, November 21st at 4:20 pm.
  Next Meeting & Adjournment
President Levesque shared that the Board's regular meeting will convene following the end of this study session in the Board Room at 6:00 pm.

With there being no further activities before the Board, the study session concluded at 5:24 pm.
  Motion: That the study session be adjourned.
  Motion by Sheri Kelly, second by Nicole Watts.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp
  REGULAR MEETING
  Call the Regular Meeting to Order
President Levesque called the regular meeting to order at 6:00 pm.
  Pledge of Allegiance
Student Advisor Deja Reed conducted the Pledge of Allegiance.
  Roll Call Attendance
The clerk called roll. Directors Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp, Sheri Kelly, Matt Dimond and Nicole Watts, Student Advisor Deja Reed and Superintendent Sweeting were in attendance. Nathan Nichols was not in attendance.
  Approval of the Regular Meeting Agenda
President Levesque asked if there were any amendments to the agenda. There were none.
  Presentation/Recognition
A. Student Presentation - Arlington High School's Air Force Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFJROTC) 61st Eagle Squadron Mission Brief
Major Mike Blue, (retired) United States Air Force and Senior Aerospace Science Instructor, along with Chief Master Sergeant Richard Jones, Cadet Captain James Scott, Cadet 1st Lieutenant Abbigail Kemp, Cadet 1st Lieutenant Josiah Christoffersen and Cadet Senior Master Sergeant Christopher Pollick shared a mission brief with the Board on the Air Force Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFJROTC) 61st Eagle Squadron program at Arlington High School. The cadets answered questions from the Board.
  Approval of Minutes
A. Regular Meeting Minutes - October 14, 2024
President Levesque asked if there were any corrections to the regular meeting minutes of October 14, 2024. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the regular meeting minutes of October 14, 2024 as presented.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Nicole Watts.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

B. Board Special Joint Meeting with Lakewood School District Minutes - October 21, 2024
President Levesque asked if there were any corrections to the special joint meeting with Lakewood School District minutes of October 21, 2024. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the Board Special Joint Meeting with Lakewood School District minutes of October 21, 2024 as presented.
  Motion by Sheri Kelly, second by Matt Dimond.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

Public Comments
There were no public comments.
  Consent Agenda
The consent agenda included:
  A. Budget and Enrollment Reports
B. Personnel Report
C. Warrants
D. Overnight Field Trip - AHS DECA to Bellevue, WA, February 27, 2025 to March 1, 2025
E. Overnight Trip - AHS Cross Country to State 4A Cross Country Championships: Pasco, WA 11.7 through 11.9.24
F. Presentation of Donation of Covered Baseball and Fastpitch Facility
G. Approval of AHS Athletics Purchase of Pole Vault Pit from Richey Athletics
H. Mental Health Counselor Cooperative Agreement Renewal
  Motion: That the Board approves the Consent Agenda as presented.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Nicole Watts.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp
  Brian Lewis, Executive Director of Operations, introduced Bill Johnson, Casey Jacobs, Carey McBride and Brooke Johnson from the Joey Dettrich Baseball Foundation, and AHS baseball coach Scott Striegel. He thanked the Joey Dettrich Baseball Foundation for their generous donation of $125,000 for the construction of a new covered baseball and fastpitch facility at Arlington High School. He shared the site plans for the new facility and read the donation letter sent to the District by the Foundation.  Brian also thanked Spane Buildings Inc. and Stanwood Redi-Mix for their donation of $5,000 each towards the construction, construction management services, and concrete for the facility. 
  New Business
A. Public Hospital District No. 3 Interlocal Agreement to Support Education for Youth Substance Abuse, Misuse and Prevention
Superintendent Sweeting explained that Arlington School District and Public Hospital District No. 3 reviewed the results of the 2023 Healthy Youth Survey and agreed that there is a need to educate students and their parents/guardians regarding youth substance abuse, misuse, and prevention. In order to address these needs, the Hospital District and the School District are working together to create a coalition for support of healthier and more resilient youth. This interlocal agreement includes creating a supplemental contract with the Director of Equity and Student Well-Being to compensate her time, support and involvement in the development of educational programs/activities regarding youth substance abuse, misuse, and prevention. Dr. Sweeting, President Levesque, and Kerri Helgeson, Director of Equity and Student Well-Being, answered questions from the Board.
  Motion: That the Board approves the Public Hospital District No. 3 Interlocal Agreement to support education for youth substance abuse, misuse, and prevention as presented.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Nicole Watts.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

B. Interview of Selected Respondent to Request for Qualifications for Architectural Services
Brian Lewis, Executive Director of Operations, explained that Policy 6925 requires the District to perform a Request for Qualifications process for the acquisition of architectural services. As part of this process, the Superintendent is directed by policy to make a recommendation to the Board for selection of an architectural firm. District staff published a Request for Qualifications and the District's Facilities Advisory Committee recently reviewed Statements of Qualifications and heard presentations from responding firms. The Facilities Advisory Committee scored the responses to formulate a recommendation to the Superintendent. The recommendation to the Superintendent is to re-engage with McGranahan Architects for services related to design and construction of projects funded by the 2024 Capital Projects Levy approved by voters in the February 2024 election. The Superintendent's recommendation to the Board mirrors the Facilities Advisory Committee's recommendation. Chris Lilley and Kate Frisbie from McGranahan Architects shared a presentation of their qualifications for the Board. Brian, Chris and Kate answered questions from the Board.
  Motion: That the Board approves recommendation from Superintendent selecting McGranahan Architects as a provider of architectural services for projects funded by the 2024 Capital Levy.
  Motion by Sheri Kelly, second by Matt Dimond.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp
  C. 2024 WSSDA Conference Presentation - Utilizing Perspectives for Informed Decision Making - Presentation Review
Superintendent Sweeting shared for Board member review the draft PowerPoint presentation entitled "Utilizing Perspectives for Informed Decision Making." This presentation will be given by the Board at the 2024 WSSDA Annual Conference on Thursday, November 21st at 4:20 pm.
      D. First Reading of Board Policy 3432 Emergency Preparedness and Response
Brian Lewis, Executive Director of Operations, presented for first reading, the proposed changes to Policy 3432 Emergency Preparedness and Response.
  E. Second Reading and Adoption of Board Policy 6020 System of Funds and Accounts
Gina Zeutenhorst, Executive Director of Financial Services, presented for second reading and adoption, the proposed revisions to Policy 6020 System of Funds and Accounts.
  Motion: That the Board approves for second reading and adoption Board Policy 6020 System of Funds and Accounts as presented.
  Motion by Nicole Watts, second by Matt Dimond.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

Informational Items
A. Superintendent's Report
Superintendent Sweeting read thank you notes sent to the District by the recipients of last year's Merle McGuire Mayo scholarships. She shared that "The Tempest" opens next weekend at the Byrnes Performing Arts Center, that there are exciting football games to look forward to, and elementary conferences are being held this week. She also reminded everyone to vote on election day, Tuesday, November 5th, and sent happy birthday wishes to Director Watts and Student Advisor Nathan Nichols. 
  B. Legislative Update and Discussion
Director Kelly shared her hopes for a positive result on election day, and thanked everyone involved in the important work of inviting legislators to events held in schools throughout the District. She also reported that she is looking forward to the "Day on the Hill" event in Olympia in January. 
  C. Comments from Board Members
Topics of general interest were shared by the Board.
  D. Next Meeting
Regular Board Meeting

Tuesday, November 12, 2024 at 6:00 pm
Arlington Public Schools District Office Board Room
315 N French Avenue
Arlington, WA 98223
  Adjournment
With there being no further business before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 7:21 pm.
  Motion: That the meeting be adjourned.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

   