    Arlington Public Schools
Board of Directors
Regular Meeting Minutes
Monday, August 12, 2024
    Call to Order
President Levesque called the meeting to order at 6:02 pm.
  Land Acknowledgement
Dr. Chrys Sweeting, Superintendent, shared a land acknowledgement recognizing that the area in which we gather is within the traditional territory of the Stillaguamish Tribe of Indians.
  Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance was conducted.
  Roll Call Attendance
The clerk called roll. Directors Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp, Sheri Kelly, Matt Dimond, Student Advisor Nathan Nichols and Superintendent Sweeting were in attendance.
  Approval of the Agenda
President Levesque asked if there were any amendments to the agenda. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the agenda as proposed.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  Board Organization
A. Swearing In of Newly Appointed Board Member
Superintendent Sweeting administered the Oath of Office to newly appointed Director for Director District #3 Nicole Watts.
  B. Swearing in of New Student Advisor
Superintendent Sweeting administered the Oath of Office to newly appointed Student Advisor Deja Reed.
  Approval of Minutes
A. Study Session and Regular Meeting Minutes - July 8, 2024
President Levesque asked if there were any corrections to the study session and regular meeting minutes of July 8, 2024. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the study session and regular meeting minutes of July 8, 2024, as presented.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  Public Comments
There were no public comments.
  Public Hearing
A. PUBLIC HEARING: 2024-25 Annual Budget
President Levesque opened the public hearing for the 2024-25 Annual Budget. Gina Zeutenhorst, Executive Director of Financial Services, provided summary budget information during the hearing for the Board's consideration. Gina answered questions from the Board. NOTE: Early in the presentation, the Zoom meeting screen disappeared and when it reappeared, the audio was off for approximately 1 minute. 
          B. PUBLIC HEARING COMMENTS: 2024-25 Annual Budget
President Levesque opened the public hearing on the proposed 2024-25 annual budget to public comments, and asked if there were any questions or comments from audience members, in person or on Zoom, regarding the budget. After requesting questions or comments from the meeting attendees three times, President Levesque closed the public hearing on the 2024-25 annual budget.
  Consent Agenda
The consent agenda included:
  A. Budget Reports
B. Personnel Report
C. Payroll Report - July 2024
D. Warrants
E. Overnight Trip - AHS Football to Breakaway - Camp Casey/Whidbey Island 8.21 through 8.23.24
F. Resolution 24-12 Authorization of Imprest Accounts and Change Funds
  Motion: That the Board approves the Consent Agenda as presented.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Matt Dimond.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

New Business
A. Report of Donations Approved by Superintendent - July 2024
Superintendent Sweeting reported that she approved a donation from the Stillaguamish Valley Learning Center's (SVLC), Parent Club of a basketball hoop for SVLC's new basketball court valued at $2,458.38.

B. Resolution 24-11 ~ 2024-25 Arlington School District No. 16 Annual Budget
Gina Zeutenhorst, Executive Director of Financial Services, presented Resolution 24-11 ~ 2024-25 Arlington School District No. 16's Annual Budget for adoption. A student advisory vote was taken on this agenda item, and both student advisors Nathan Nichols and Deja Reed voted in favor of approving the 2024-25 annual budget.
  Motion: That the Board approves Resolution 24-11 ~ 2024-25 Arlington School District No. 16 Annual Budget as presented.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

C. Financial Highlights of Current Budget
Gina Zeutenhorst, Executive Director of Financial Services, shared highlights from the current budget as of June 2024. Gina answered questions from the Board.
  D. Highway 530 Site Sale Update
Brian Lewis, Executive Director of Operations, provided the Board with an update on the site sale of the Highway 530 property. He answered questions from the Board.
  E. First Reading of Board Policy 2090 Program Evaluation and Policy 5411 Staff Vacations
Kari Henderson-Burke, Executive Director of Teaching and Learning, presented for first reading the proposed revisions to Board Policy 2090 Program Evaluation. Eric DeJong, Executive Director of Human Resources, also presented for first reading proposed revisions to Board Policy 5411 Staff Vacations. Eric answered questions from the Board. No additional revisions were suggested.
  F. Second Reading and Adoption of Board Policy 5005 Employment and Volunteers: Disclosures, Certification Requirements, Assurances and Approval
Eric DeJong, Executive Director of Human Resources, presented for second reading and adoption Board Policy 5005 Employment and Volunteers: Disclosures, Certification Requirements, Assurances and Approval.
  Motion: That the Board approves for second reading and adoption Board Policy 5005 Employment and Volunteers: Disclosures, Certification Requirements, Assurances and Approval as presented.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Nicole Watts.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

G. Second Reading and Adoption of Board Policy 5401 Sick Leave
Eric DeJong, Executive Director of Human Resources, presented for second reading and adoption Board Policy 5401 Sick Leave.
  Motion: That the Board approves for second reading and adoption Board Policy 5401 Sick Leave as presented.
  Motion by Nicole Watts, second by Matt Dimond.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  Informational Items
A. Superintendent's Report
Dr. Chrys Sweeting welcomed Director Nicole Watts and Student Advisor Deja Reed to the Board. She shared that last week the district leadership team participated in a two-day learning workshop. In preparation for students returning to school, there are many projects being worked on throughout the district. There are also many activities coming up. Eagle Days at Arlington High School on August 20th and 21st, Haller Middle School Fly-In on August 21st and 22nd and an open house on August 31st. There will be open houses at all the elementary schools on the 29th from 4:00 - 6:00 pm. SVLC's back-to-school conferences start September 4, and Weston High School's first day of school is September 4th. There will also be a resource fair this Saturday at Presidents, where we will be sharing information about the district. There will be free backpacks, and an opportunity for our families to meet our community partners. 
  B. Legislative Update and Discussion
Director Kelly reported that she is looking forward to the WASA General Assembly on the 20th and 21st of September, where there will be approximately 160 legislative measures included for consideration. She shared that she feels Special Education funding and correcting the funding model adopted by McCleary are top issues for Arlington, as the funding needs of the District are not being met. 
  C. Comments from Board Members
Topics of general interest were shared by the Board.
  D. Next Meetings
Board All-Day Workshop

Monday, August 19, 2024
All-Day Workshop begins at 9:00 am
Arlington Public Schools District Office Lincoln Room
315 N French Avenue
Arlington, WA 98223


Regular Board Meeting

Monday, August 26, 2024
Regular Meeting begins at 6:00 pm
Arlington Public Schools District Office Board Room
315 N French Avenue
Arlington, WA 98223
  Adjournment
With there being no further business before the board, the meeting was adjourned at 7:27 pm.
  Motion: That the meeting be adjourned.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Nicole Watts.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

   