      Arlington Public Schools
Board of Directors
Regular Meeting Minutes
Monday, October 14, 2024
    Call to Order
President Levesque called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm.
  Land Acknowledgement
Student Advisor Deja Reed shared a land acknowledgement recognizing that the area in which we gather is within the traditional territory of the Stillaguamish Tribe of Indians.
    Pledge of Allegiance
Student Advisor Nathan Nichols conducted and signed the Pledge of Allegiance.
    Roll Call Attendance
The clerk called roll. Directors Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Student Advisors Nathan Nichols, Deja Reed and Superintendent Sweeting were in attendance. Director Matt Dimond was not in attendance.
    Approval of the Agenda
President Levesque asked if there were any amendments to the agenda. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the agenda as proposed.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Nicole Watts.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

    Presentations/Recognitions
A. Presentation of AESD Accreditation Plaque to Weston High School
Dr. Ismael Vivanco, Superintendent, and Cory Duskin, Board Member, Northwest Educational Service District 189, honored Weston High School for the renewal of its six-year accreditation status (2024-2030), with a plaque presented to Andrea Dixon-Hundredmark, Principal.
  B. Student Presentation and Internship Report from Summer 2024
Lisa Rodino, Arlington High School's School-to-Work Coordinator, and high school students, Kailey Larson, Kollin Hall and Ethan Morris shared a presentation on the summer internship program. This program emphasizes the critical importance of investing in high-quality career programs to address the workforce challenges posed by the current shortage of qualified employees. By offering invaluable hands-on experience, the program seeks to benefit both students and employers while contributing to developing a highly skilled workforce for the future. Lisa answered questions from the Board.

Approval of Minutes
A. Study Session and Regular Meeting Minutes - September 23, 2024
President Levesque asked if there were any changes to the regular meeting minutes of September 23, 2024. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the study session and regular meeting minutes of September 23, 2024 as presented.
  Motion by Nicole Watts, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

      Public Comments
Mr. Rob Hollis, teacher at Arlington High School and Neobots coach, thanked the Stillaguamish Tribe of Indians for their generous donation supporting robotics at Arlington High School.
  Consent Agenda
The consent agenda included:
  A. Personnel Report
B. Payroll Report - September 2024
C. Warrants
D. Stillaguamish Tribe of Indians Donation to Washington First Robotics/AHS Neobots Club
E. Overnight Field Trip - AHS DECA to Bellevue, WA, November 7, 2024 to November 9, 2024
F. Overnight and Out-of-State Field Trip - AHS Journalism to Philadelphia, PA November 6-10, 2024
G. Overnight - SkillsUSA Fall Leadership Camp, Auburn, WA - October 25-26, 2025
H. Overnight Trip - AHS Cheer to WIAA State Championships: Battle Ground, WA 1/24 through 1/25/25
 I. Snohomish County Human Services - 2024-25 Early Learning Network - Early Childhood Education Assistance Program (ECEAP) Contract Amendment
 J. Approval of Jamf Service Agreement for Student and Teacher Device Management and Security
 K. Mental Health Counselor Cooperative Agreement Renewal
 L. Federal and State Grants Overview
  Motion: That the Board approves the Consent Agenda as presented.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Sheri Kelly.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

New Business
A. Career and Technical Education: School-to-Work Report
Lisa Rodino, Arlington High School's School-to-Work Coordinator, and students from the School-to-Work program shared a presentation with the Board on the work-based learning, job shadows and summer internships that Arlington High School students participated in this past summer. The program has seen increased participation and completion rates over time. Future goals include strengthening partnerships, expanding job shadow and field trip opportunities, and introducing early career planning at the middle school level. Lisa answered questions from the Board.
  B. Post Middle School Replacement Capital Levy Informational Videos
Gary Sabol, Communications Director, shared videos that Arlington Public Schools engaged Strategies 360 to produce as part of the outreach effort to provide detailed information to the community about the Post Middle School Replacement Capital Levy proposal. Gary answered questions from the Board.
  C. 2025 Legislative Priorities
Legislative Representative and Board Director, Sheri Kelly, and Superintendent Sweeting presented for Board approval the 2024-25 Arlington Public Schools Legislative Priorities. These legislative priorities provide focus on the issues most pertinent to the District that need attention and consideration by legislators. Dr. Sweeting answered questions from the Board. President Levesque asked Student Advisors Deja Reed and Nathan Nichols for their student advisory vote on this agenda item. Both student advisors said that they were in support of the District's 2025 Legislative Priorities.

Motion: That the Board approves the Arlington Public Schools Legislative Priorities for 2025 as presented.
  Motion by Sheri Kelly, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

D. First Reading of Board Policy 6020 System of Funds and Accounts
Gina Zeutenhorst, Executive Director of Financial Services, submitted for first reading, proposed revisions to Board Policy 6020 System of Funds and Accounts. Gina answered questions from the Board.
  Informational Items
A. Superintendent's Report
Superintendent Sweeting extended happy birthday wishes to Director Dimond. She reported that today is Indigenous People's Day. The 2nd Monday in October is set aside across our nation to honor Native American cultures and traditions. At Arlington School District, we value and are extremely grateful for the partnership we have with our local tribes. We work closely with the Stillaguamish Education and Cultural Departments to increase our understanding of tribal traditions and ways. We also work together with them to have support for our youth and to have a true, authentic connection with the "Since Time Immemorial" curriculum, so that it aligns with our local tribal history. Dr. Sweeting reminded everyone that September 30th was Orange Shirt Day. Orange Shirt Day honors the tribal families, children and elders that were impacted by the Native American children being sent to federal indian boarding schools. She read aloud five thank you notes from recipients of last year's Merle McGuire Mayo scholarships. Superintendent Sweeting shared that our Board will be participating in a special joint meeting with Lakewood School District on Monday, October 21st, to share each district's legislative priorities.

B. Legislative Update and Discussion
Director Kelly commented that she is happy to see legislators visiting our schools. She also shared that she is applying for a position on a committee at WSSDA.
  C. Comments from Board Members
Topics of general interest were shared by the Board.
  D. Next Meetings
Board of Directors Special Joint Meeting with Lakewood School District

Monday, October 21, 2024

5:00 - 6:30 pm
Lakewood High School Library
17023 11th Avenue NE
Arlington, WA 98223


Study Session and Regular Board Meeting

Monday, October 28, 2024

Study Session begins at 4:00 pm
Arlington Public Schools District Office Lincoln Room
315 N French Avenue
Arlington, WA 98223

Regular Meeting begins at 6:00 pm
Arlington Public Schools District Office Board Room
315 N French
Arlington, WA 98223
  Adjournment
With there being no further business before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 7:19 pm.
  Motion: That the meeting be adjourned.
  Motion by Erica Knapp, second by Nicole Watts.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

   