      Arlington Public Schools
Board of Directors
Board All-Day Workshop Minutes
Monday, August 19, 2024
    Call to Order
President Levesque called the workshop to order at 9:03 am.
  Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance was conducted.
  Roll Call Attendance
The clerk called roll. Directors Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp, Sheri Kelly, Matt Dimond, Nicole Watts, Student Advisors Nathan Nichols, Deja Reed and Superintendent Sweeting were in attendance.
  Approval of the Agenda
President Levesque asked if there were any amendments to the agenda. There were none.
  Motion: That the Board approves the agenda as proposed.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp

  Workshop Activities
A. Overview of the Day
Superintendent Sweeting shared an overview of the day's activities.
  B. Four Corners Activity
The board and attendees participated in a team building four-corners activity where they answered questions by going to a specified place in the room depending on their preferences for food, travel, seasons, leadership style etc. and shared out about why they made that choice.
  C. Setting the Stage for 2024-25
Superintendent Sweeting set the stage for the new 2024-25 school year by sharing this year's continued emphasis, focus and vision of All Belong and Learn in APS.
  D. Board Tapestry of Collective Leadership Efforts
Superintendent Sweeting shared the idea behind the board's tapestry of collective leadership efforts project which is a visual of the board's commitment, weaving evidence-based practices and authenticity, blending threads that foster exceptional leadership and create a tapestry of support for building a more resilient and positive organization to support student learning and achievement. The tools of effective leadership of preparation, effective communication, evidence-based practices, integrity and authenticity, the human element, adaptability and the final stitch will complete the tapestry of leadership efforts. School and Department completed tapestries and the write-ups explaining each group's meaning behind the image created were shared. Board members will create a tapestry and write-up the meaning behind it later in the afternoon.
  E. Break
President Levesque recessed the workshop at 10:15 am for a brief break, and reconvened the workshop at 10:30 am.
  F. Districtwide Survey Results
Gary Sabol, Director of Communications, shared the data received from the family, student and staff surveys from this past year with the board. There was discussion.
  G. Looking Ahead - Facilities Planning/Capital Levy
Brian Lewis, Executive Director of Operations, presented a look ahead for facilities planning and capital levy. He shared the 2024 facilities projects, the work planned for 2025, and the plan for communicating, messaging, implementation of support, project management and strategies, digital media and videos with staff and the community about the Capital Levy for a New Post Middle School. Due to the time, the board decided to recess the workshop for lunch and amend the agenda to move the Public Disclosure Commission Review to after lunch.
  H. Recess Workshop for Lunch
President Levesque recessed the workshop for lunch at 12:12 pm.
  I. Reconvene Workshop
President Levesque reconvened the workshop at 12:45 pm.
  J. Public Disclosure Commission Review
Brian Lewis, Executive Director of Operations, reviewed the Public Disclosure Commission's (PDC's) guidelines and basic principles around school elections. He shared the permitted and not permitted actions of board members regarding involvement in the school election campaign.
  K. Board Self-Assessment Results/Review, Adjusting Board/Superintendent Goals & Professional Development Plan to Support Goals
Superintendent Sweeting provided the group with the board's self-assessment survey data from Spring 2024. Attendees were broken up into groups to summarize the progress of their current goals and review the survey findings to adjust the Board-Superintendent Goals and Professional Development Plan to support those goals for 2024-25, if necessary.
  L. Break
President Levesque recessed the workshop for a brief break at 2:20 pm. The workshop reconvened at 2:25 pm.
  M. Board Tapestry Project and Group Sharing
Superintendent Sweeting split the attendees into two groups, providing instruction to the groups on how to create a tapestry which represents each groups idea of board collective leadership efforts. Each group wrote up the ideas behind their tapestry vision and shared out to the group.
  Informational Items
Next Meeting
President Levesque shared that the board's next meeting will be Monday, August 26th at 6:00 pm in the district's board room.
  Adjournment
With there being no further activities before the board, the workshop was adjourned at 3:37 pm.
  Motion: That the meeting be adjourned.
  Motion by Matt Dimond, second by Erica Knapp.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Matt Dimond, Sheri Kelly, Nicole Watts, Mary Levesque, Erica Knapp
   