Toledo School District
Board of Directors
December 19, 2023
The regular meeting of the Board of Directors was called to order at 6:30p.m. by Chairman,
Heidi Buswell. Board members in attendance included Heidi Buswell, Brad Dykstra, Jerad
Buswell, Lance Maier and Adam Hutchinson. Mrs. Buswell asked that anyone taping the
meeting identify themselves so that speakers would know they were being taped. The
meeting was convened in person, but was also held virtually.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Adam Hutchinson.
The Land Acknowledgement was read by Heidi Buswell.
Board AgendaMr. Dykstra made a motion to approve the December 19, 2023 agenda as presented. Mr. Buswell
seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Board MembershipMr. Bailey administered the oath of office to returning board member, Lance Maier and new board
member, Adam Hutchinson.
Annual Organizational MeetingMr. Dykstra made a motion to nominate Heidi Buswell as the 2024 board chairman. Mr. Buswell
seconded the motion. Motion passed with a 5-0 roll call vote.
Mr. Buswell made a motion to nominate Brad Dykstra as the 2024 board vice-chairman. Mr.
Hutchinson seconded the motion. Motion passed with a 5-0 roll call vote.
Mr. Dykstra made a motion to nominate Lance Maier as the WIAA Representative. Mr. Buswell
seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Mr. Dykstra made a motion to nominate Heidi Buswell as the WSSDA Legislative Representative.
Mr. Hutchinson seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Good News in SchoolMs. Holter had students from 6th , 7th and 8th grade to present to the board. They presented ELA
essays, maps from Pacific Northwest History and did drone demonstrations.
Comments/Questions from the AudienceThere were no comments or questions.
Guest SpeakersThere were no guest speakers.
Board Community UpdateMrs. Buswell had nothing to report.
Mr. Maier reported the new WIAA classifications were out. They are checked every 4 years and
the new cycle is 2024-2028. The 2B numbers are 105-224, to get moved up to 1A number range
is 225-449. Our league changes are Kalama is moving back to 1A next year, Mossyrock back to
1

2B, Wahkiakum to 1B and Stevenson back to 1A. He noted boys’ basketball as of that day were
6-2 and they would be playing MWP in the Moda Center the following Friday. The girls’
basketball team was 5-3 and they would also be playing in the Moda Center.
Mr. Dykstra had nothing to report.
Mr. Buswell had nothing to report.
Quyn Norberg, Senior Board Representative, reported the following:
Toledo High School Freshman toured Centralia College earlier this month.
 Kasen Ball and Zack Smith, crafted a magnificent 14-foot metal Christmas tree that stands
proudly outside the school. This sequel to the ‘Great Pumpkin’ welded this Fall adds to the
motto ‘Weld It And They Will Come’...
 IXL testing round 2 will be conducted during the 2nd week of January after the return from
the Holiday Break.
 Knowledge Bowl team competed in a locally hosted meet, moved up to the Championship
bracket and are looking forward to the January meet and District playoffs.
 The Choir entertained the school by a walkabout Caroling session at the high school and
teaming up with Mr. Malunat's class to teach the 2nd graders a few German Holiday songs
last Thursday at 2nd Grade Safari.
 EVERY ATHLETE PASSED GRADE CHECK!
Elementary SchoolThere have been LOTS of holiday spirit this month at the elementary. Yesterday friends and
family were invited to the holiday concert that was presented 3rd-5th grades and k-2nd grades
following! Today they wrapped up the year with a fun filled day in the classrooms!
Kaycee Horrace, Junior Student Representative, reported the following:
CPA- Ms. Doris She gave a huge shout out to Market Fresh for their donation of a Christmas Tree to their
school. She noted they had been enjoying the beautiful decorated tree in our classroom.
Several of our students are on track with their assignments. One graduated in December!!!
We are so proud of all of our students and their accomplishments!!!! One student has been
doing a fantastic job playing in the band in middle school. She played in the recent concert
they had as well!!
Middle school- Miss HolterThe girls basketball team ended their season proud of their growth and
accomplishments. Boys basketball has started practicing and will have games starting in
January. The wrestlers also had a great season, with Carter, Brody, Ramon, Liam, and
Kalvin all receiving medals at the end of the year tournament.
The Honor Roll field trip to the bowling alley was fun, and we had 45 students earn Honor
Roll recognition and 79 students earn Principal’s List recognition for first trimester. Along
with the Honor Roll and Principal's list, we also recognized our Students of the Tri recently.
The leadership class has added a new celebration to our student recognition efforts, Kindness
Awards. Teachers give Kindness Awards to students who go out of their way to be kind to
their peers. These students are being recognized at our assemblies and on Facebook.
Consent AgendaMr. Dykstra made a motion to approve the consent agenda.
 Approve Minutes Regular Meeting November 21, 2023
2










Approve Payroll and Vouchers
Approve Resignation of Courtney Moore- Head Girls Soccer Coach- THS
Approve Resignation of Madison Higgenbottom- Assistant Girls Soccer Coach- THS
Approve Hire of Madalyn Creed- Para TMS
Approve Hire of Calvin Wallace- Assistant Wrestling Coach- TMS
Approve Hire of Matthew Garrison- Head Wrestling Coach- THS
Approve Hire of Scott Norberg- Assistant Fastpitch Coach- THS
Approve Contract 2023-24-30- TSD & Hanson Law Offices- Legal Services Retainer
Mr. Buswell seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Transportation ReportMr. Bailey reported we are still in the process of hiring a new transportation supervisor.
Finance ReportMrs. Lawrence, Business Manager, reported the following:
 Year End Financial Statement Report
 Fund Balance Report
 Budget Status Report
Communications, Correspondence and IntroductionsThere were no communications or correspondence to review.
Superintendent's ReportMr. Bailey provided an update on enrollment. We are at 806.4 FTE with a headcount of 835. We
are budgeted at 810 FTE.
Annual Board Report
#1210 ANNUAL ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING ELECTION OF OFFICERS
*In December of each year organize officers, chair, vice chair, legislative representative. Past
Board business practice has been to reorganize based on two year officer terms. Mr. Bailey noted
this had been done earlier in the meeting.
#2004 ACCOUNTABILITY GOALS
*The board shall annually adopt district-wide graduation goals and direct each high school to
annually establish goals, subject to board approval, to increase the percentage of on-time
graduates receiving a high school diploma beginning with the class of 2004. Annually the district
will report in a news release the district’s progress toward meeting the district and building
goals. Mr. Bailey noted principals reported last month on current student achievement data.
This year, all students have applied to Centralia College or have been accepted to another
school. 100% of our THS students are on track to graduate.
#2161P SPECIAL EDUCATION AND RELATED SERVICES FOR ELIGIBLE STUDENTS
*The district will apply annually for Federal Part B and state special education funding…The
district shall annually report to OSPI the number of students receiving EIS. (NOTE: This service is
provided to Toledo SD through the agreement with Lewis County SPED Coop). Mr. Bailey noted
this report had been made by the Lewis County SPED co-op.
#6030 – FINANCIAL REPORTS
The board recognizes that responding to Public record requests pursuant to Chapter 42.56, RCW
is one of the district's unique and core essential functions, and that full access to information
3

concerning the conduct of government of every level must be assured as a fundamental and
necessary precondition to the sound governance of a free society. Therefore, each month or
quarter, the superintendent will submit to the board a Public Records Transparency Report that
includes a list of all public records requests received by the district. At its discretion and in an
effort to achieve the fullest transparency as to the public records requests it receives and to which
it provides responses, the board or superintendent may post the report on its website. Mr. Bailey
reported there had been one public record request this month.
#6600 - TRANSPORTATION
*Per policy #6600 "Each year the superintendent shall present to the board the number of students
who are transported who live within the minimum distance of their schools and for whom there
appears sufficient justification for the district to provide transportation.” Mr. Bailey reported we
currently transport an average of 710 students per day.
CEE Data: We have had difficulty getting people to respond to the survey this year. We have
extended the window for collecting information until Dec. 19. I will have results for you in January
as well as how the results relate to our equity and district improvement goals. Mr. Bailey reported
he had been in contact with Roni Rumsey to set up our district for CEE.
Superintendent Evaluation- February: Mr. Bailey noted it will be time for his annual evaluation
in February. This year will be a focused evaluation. In the past, you have scheduled a 1-hour
meeting prior to your regular board meeting for this purpose. He noted this was in action items for
consideration.
School Resource Officer – Mr. Bailey noted we have the opportunity to have a volunteer resource
officer with the help of our local police chief. The board discussed this opportunity and asked Mr.
Bailey to get more details and report back in January.
Board StudyThere was no board study.
First ReadingThere were no First Readings for review.
Non-Substantial or Legal Reference Updates OnlyThere were no non-substantial or legal reference for review.
Action and Information ItemsThe Board reviewed the following resolutions, contracts and agreements.
ResolutionsMr. Maier made a motion to approve Resolution 2023-24-04 Cancel General Fund
Warrant #45113797 for $75.00 Lost/Reissue and Warrant #45114735 for $81.07 Lost/Reissue
Mr. Dykstra seconded the motion. Motion passed with a 5-0 roll call vote.
Contracts/Agreements- New
There were no new contracts or agreements to review.
Miscellaneous4

The board deferred making a decision and asked Mr. Bailey to bring back additional information
on the resource officer.
Special Meeting- Supt EvaluationNo direction from board no vote needed.
Policies to be Adopted by School BoardMr. Dykstra made a motion to approve the policies as presented.
 2190/2190P Highly Capable Programs
 5050 Contracts
 6217/6217P Electronic Funds Transfer
 3225 School-Based Threat Assessment
 4040/4040P Public Access to District Records out of date policy and procedure
 4129 Family Involvement out of date policy
Mr. Buswell seconded the motion. Motion Passed.
AdjournmentMr. Hutchinson moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Buswell seconded the motion. Motion
passed. Meeting adjourned at 7:21p.m.
Approved this 18th day of January, 2024.
_______________________
Brennan Bailey
Secretary to the Board
_______________________
Heidi Buswell
Chairman

_______________________
Brad Dykstra
Vice-Chairman

5

