Toledo School District
Board of Directors
October 16, 2024
The regular meeting of the Board of Directors was called to order at 6:30p.m. by Chairman, Heidi
Buswell. Board members in attendance included Heidi Buswell, Brad Dykstra, Lance Maier, and
Jerad Buswell. Adam Hutchinson was absent. Mrs. Buswell asked that anyone taping the meeting
identify themselves so that speakers would know they were being taped. The meeting was convened
in person, but was also held virtually.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mr. Buswell.
The Land Acknowledgement was read by Mrs. Buswell.
Board AgendaMr. Maier made a motion to approve the October 16, 2024 agenda as presented. Mr. Buswell seconded the
motion. Motion passed.
Good News in School-

Mrs. Schultz and her class presented an overview of Kindness 101. All of the 3rd graders meet in
her room once a week to learn a new word related to kindness. They have a bulletin board in the
hallway that they use to add each weekly word and definition.

Comments/Questions from the AudienceThere were no comments or questions from the audience.
Guest SpeakersThere were no guest speakers.
Board Community UpdateMrs. Buswell had nothing to report.
Mr. Dykstra noted he was happy about middle school footballs success.
Mr. Buswell noted the middle school football team was 5-0 and their last game would be the following day.
Mr. Maier noted that WIAA announced that state football would be at Huskie Stadium December 7th.
Mr. Hutchinson was absent.
Kaycee Horrace, Senior Board Representative, reported coffee house the previous week went well. She has
heard good reports about lunches and staff. She noted the previous Friday was a subway style
sandwich. She reported the vending machines had been closed, except during lunch, due to kids out of
class in the halls. Mr. Huffman said they were re-opened. She noted the TES- student of the month RAP
assembly was on the 7th. Friends and family lunch would be held again this year and the PTO was hosting
the Candy Crawl for Halloween.
Naomi Padgett, Junior Board Representative, was absent.
Consent AgendaMr. Dykstra made a motion to approve the consent agenda.
 Approve Minutes Regular Meeting September 19, 2024
 Approve Payroll and Vouchers
 Approve Hire of Kassandra Coverdell- Life Skills Para TMS

1













Approve Hire of Janice Nef- Teacher TES
Approve Hire of Michael Fischer- THS Event Manager
Approve Hire of Doug Sheddy- TMS Head Wrestling Coach
Approve Hire of Brad Moore- TMS Asst. Girls Basketball Coach
Approve Hire of Gwen Wilson- TMS Event Manager
Approve out of Endorsed Area
Approve MOU 2024-25-15- City University & TSD- Alternative Route Program
Approve Agreement 2024-25-16- ESD 113 & TSD - Nursing Services
Approve Tentative Agreement - TSD & PSE
Approve Tentative Agreement - TSD & PSE- Transportation
Approve Non-rep salary
Mr. Buswell seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Transportation ReportAdriana Ward, Transportation Supervisor, reported the following:
 We are in compliance with requirements to drop door side.
 We anticipate flood and snow routes to be done by Nov. 4th.
 There were 9 stop paddle violations
 Waiting on quotes to purchase a new SpEd bus.
 All fall Stars reports are complete, along with end of year reports.
 We have 2 new driver trainers and 5 people currently in course.
Finance ReportMrs. Lawrence, Business Manager, was absent. Mr. Bailey reported the following:
 Budget Status Report
He noted these are Preliminary figures as we are still working on closing out the 23.24 fiscal year.
Communications, Correspondence and IntroductionsContracts/Agreements – New
There were no new contracts or agreements to review.
SIP Reports






Dave Hopf reviewed the TES- IXL data and some of the things they are doing to improve
scores/learning.
Mike Christensen reviewed TMS data and highlighted some of the interventions they are
doing. They are going to start pulling kids out that need extra help for one on one support with Ms.
Fraser. He would like to look at IXL and SBAC data to see how the scores compare to one
another. He noted some good news is they have gone from 2 lunches to one lunch. There is a real
focus on putting out positive vibes, they’ve given over 200 brave awards and have gone back to
student of the month awards.
Martin Huffman reviewed the THS- IXL data. He monitored the testing a bit better and is able to
have the kids work on getting better scores. He noted there would be a dance the following Friday
after the football game. They were going to give discounts for the dance if the students made the
principals list. Students are working at the senior center with the seniors. Osprey Cafe is
open. DLT talked about promoting coffee house more. He noted the TCF attended the CTE
meeting the previous day. TCF will pay for our kids to attend career fairs at Napavine and
Chehalis. He noted they are working on kids being tardy and consequences.
Brennan Bailey reported CPA IXL results are not great, but at least we have something to compare
to and do better.

Superintendent's Report-

Mr. Bailey provided an update on enrollment. We are at 873.28 FTE with a headcount of 894. We
2

are budgeted at 810 FTE.
Annual Policy Report-

#2005 SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PLANS
Each school shall develop and adopt a school improvement plan or process, with annual review for
progress and necessary changes. Mr. Bailey noted the schools presented student achievement
data.
#2110 TRANSITIONAL BILINGUAL INSTRUCTION PROGRAM (POLICY &
PROCEDURE)
Annually, and prior to August 1 of each year, the district will submit an application to OSPI
requesting funding to support its Transitional Bilingual Instruction Program. Which will then
need to be approved annually by the board. Mr. Bailey reported this application had been
submitted to OSPI.
#2170 CAREER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION (POLICY & PROCEDURE)
The board will annually review and approve the district plan for design and delivery of its career
and technical education program. Mr. Bailey reported the CTE Five-year plan was approved.
-#2190 HIGHLY CAPABLE PROGRAMS
The board will annually approve the district’s highly capable application. Mr. Bailey noted he
reported on this in September.
#3210 NONDISCRIMINATION
The superintendent shall provide for the annual evaluation, periodic surveys, annual notice and
complaint procedures as required by law to insure that there is in fact equal opportunity for all
students in the district. Mr. Bailey confirmed that the district is in compliance with the law in all
respects. We continue to work to create a more equitable and just system for all students.
#4130 TITLE I PARENTAL INVOLVEMENT
Annual -Board REVIEW Policy. Semi Annual - The District shall conduct annual evaluation of
the content and effectiveness of this policy in improving the academic quality of the schools
served with Title I funds. An annual meeting of parents of participating Title I students shall be
held to explain the goals and purposes of the Title I program and to evaluate the content and
effectiveness of the parental involvement policy. Mr. Bailey noted the annual Title I parent
meeting would be convened later in the Fall when eligibility of students is completed.
#6030 FINANCIAL REPORTS
The board recognizes that responding to Public record requests pursuant to Chapter 42.52, RCW is
one of the district's unique and core essential functions, and that full access to information
concerning the conduct of government of every level must be assured as a fundamental and
necessary precondition to the sound governance of a free society. Therefore, each month or
quarter, the superintendent will submit to the board a Public Records Transparency Report that
includes a list of all public records requests received by the district. At its discretion and in an
effort to achieve the fullest transparency as to the public records requests it receives and to which
it provides responses, the board or superintendent may post the report on its website. Mr. Bailey
reported we had no public records requests.


Cell phones- Mrs. Buswell would like to revisit this in April or May and include students, DLT,

3






and parents to evaluate how it's going and determine if we need to tweak the policy.
PSE agreement- Mr. Bailey noted this had been approved under consent agenda.
PSE transportation agreement- Mr. Bailey noted this had been approved under consent agenda.
Non-represented staff- Mr. Bailey noted this had been approved under consent agenda.
Track grant- Mr. Bailey informed the board that we were not selected for the RCO/COAF track
grant.

Board StudyStrategic Plan- Mr. Bailey noted he narrowed it down to three goals. The board liked it, they felt it was
easier to understand and more usable.
First ReadingThere were no first reads for review.
Non-Substantial or Legal Reference Updates OnlyThere were no non-substantial or legal reference for review.
Action and Information ItemsThe Board reviewed the following resolutions, contracts and agreements.
ResolutionsThere were no resolutions to approve.
MiscellaneousThere was no miscellaneous action.
Contracts/Agreements- New
There were no new contracts or agreements to review.
Policies to be Adopted by School BoardThere were no policies to be adopted by the school board.
AdjournmentMr. Buswell moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Dykstra seconded the motion. Motion passed. Meeting
adjourned at 7:38p.m.
Approved this 20th day of November, 2024.
_______________________
Brennan Bailey
Secretary to the Board
_______________________
Heidi Buswell
Chairman

_______________________
Brad Dykstra
Vice-Chairman

4

