Toledo School District
Board of Directors
January 18, 2024
The regular meeting of the Board of Directors was called to order at 6:31p.m. by Chairman,
Heidi Buswell. Board members in attendance included Heidi Buswell, Brad Dykstra, Lance
Maier, Jerad Buswell and Adam Hutchinson. Mrs. Buswell asked that anyone taping the
meeting identify themselves so that speakers would know they were being taped. The
meeting was convened in person, but was also held virtually.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Adam Hutchinson.
The Land Acknowledgement was read by Heidi Buswell.
Board AgendaMr. Dykstra made a motion to approve the January 18, 2024 agenda as presented. Mr. Hutchinson
seconded the motion. Motion passed.
School Hosted PresentationMrs. Neumann Niles presented good news to the board. RAP and student of the month assemblies
are going great. bench mark testing starts the following week.
Board Community UpdateMrs. Buswell noted that she and Mr. Dykstra got an email and asked for a review from a city for
NW Leadership. After discussions it was decided that Mrs. Buswell would draft a letter response
to the city.
Mr. Dykstra noted Izzy Acosta reached out to him and wanted the board/district to know the
baseball program is growing and be sure it was on our radar.
Mr. Buswell had nothing to report.
Adam Hutchinson noted it was good that the district opened the middle school to community
member without water during the bad weather.
Lance Maier reported boys’ basketball had 22 boys, plus two 8th graders. Girls’ basketball had 10
girls, plus two 8th graders and wrestling had 13 wrestlers, 9 boys and 4 girls.
Quyn Norberg, Senior Student Board Representative, was absent.
Kaycee Horrace, Junior Student Board Representative, did not have a report.
Comments/Questions from the AudienceThere were no questions or comments.
Guest SpeakersThere were no guest speakers.
Consent AgendaMr. Buswell made a motion to approve the consent agenda.
1





Approve Minutes Regular Meeting December 19, 2023
Approve Payroll and Vouchers
Approve Resignation of Cailee Martin- MS Wrestling Coach
Mr. Maier seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Maintenance Report- Mike Ross, Maintenance Supervisor, reported the following:
Toledo High School
 Blew all of the leaves off the parking lot and walkways.
 Repaired a failed fixture in the AD office that had been damaged by a ball strike.
 Added a workbench and some shelving on the mezzanine to accommodate the building
M&O manuals and to provide a repair space.
 Numerous repairs completed to RTU1 (serving the GYM) including a new modulating
valve and programming changes to make the unit more reliable.
 Repairs to RTU2 (serving the Woodshop), this unit received a filter swap, adjustment to
the regulator and programming changes to help alleviate the persistent failure to fire issues.
 Removed downed trees from the grounds as a few had blown over during the storm.
Toledo Middle School
 Completed wall patching due to vandalism.
 Built shelving in the shop for more organization and shop storage.
 Numerous repairs to the heating systems including replacing the coil on the office HVAC
unit and replacing the igniter on the DHW boiler. We also had 2 leaks on the DHW line
that we repaired.
 Added a gable fan to the greenhouse.
TES









Added tack strips to the commons wall to accommodate the lunch card boards, this should
keep them off the floor in the future.
The 400a service is installed for the portables and all electrical was signed off by L&I.
LCPUD came out to connect us to power so we have heat and lights in portables 3&4.
Completed repairs on the red school house mini-split.
Repaired mechanical mezzanine lighting, rewiring fixtures as necessary.
Graded the parent drop off loop, filling holes and low spots.
Repaired the gym ceiling as it had numerous punctures and tears from ball hits.
Replaced the NAC panel for the gym wing due to the board failing in the original panel
and new parts being unavailable. This new panel should also give us the capacity to add
portables 3&4 to the existing fire system.

Bus Garage
 Added gravel to the lot to fix potholes and low spots.
Other
Our whole team has been working hard to keep the district looking good while keeping spending
light due to budget constraints. We are putting some projects on the back burner awaiting
funding, but have been tackling other projects that require man power and minimal materials.
These items include things like deep cleaning the portables 3&4, taking down the climbing wall at
TES due to it becoming unsafe, blowing down the High School and Elementary School parking
lots and walkways, performing service on our power equipment, painting, building shelving and
2

organizing our maintenance shop, installing a roll-up door in the shop and much more. We have
also kept ahead of routine repairs like toilets, sinks and urinals, and repairing walls and fixtures
that have been damaged in the schools.
Training Opportunity
Each year we have expired fire extinguishers that have to be changed out during our required
annual inspection, we use the expired extinguishers for training so that any employee who has
never operated an extinguisher, or would just like to practice may do so. This year we had 5 staff
members who jumped at the opportunity to come out and train.
Food Services ReportDana gave the report for Chartwell's. Mrs. Buswell noted that we don't want food services to be
profit making. Chartwell's is looking at ways to spend the $25k we have, possibly on equipment.
Finance Report- Jenaya Lawrence, Business Manager, reported the following:
 Budget Status Report
 Fund Balance
Communications, Correspondence and IntroductionsCorrespondence- None
Contracts/Agreements- New
MOU 2023-24-32 TSD & Toledo Police Department- SRO was deferred to next month.
Superintendent's ReportMr. Bailey provided an update on enrollment. We are at 812.92 FTE with a headcount of 841. We
are budgeted at 810 FTE.

Annual Board ReportBoard Policy Review
#6030 – FINANCIAL REPORTS
The board recognizes that responding to Public record requests pursuant to Chapter 42.56, RCW
is one of the district's unique and core essential functions, and that full access to information
concerning the conduct of government of every level must be assured as a fundamental and
necessary precondition to the sound governance of a free society. Therefore, each month or
quarter, the superintendent will submit to the board a Public Records Transparency Report that
includes a list of all public records requests received by the district. At its discretion and in an
effort to achieve the fullest transparency as to the public records requests it receives and to which
it provides responses, the board or superintendent may post the report on its website. Mr. Bailey
reported we had no public records request this month.
Board Appreciation Month: Mr. Bailey thanked the board for everything they do for our district.
He noted he knows firsthand that being on the board can be a thankless job at times, but reiterated
that the board members are all making a positive impact for our kids. He presented them with a
gift.
Playground Grant: Mr. Bailey thanked those involved in getting the $200,000 grant to rebuild our
playground at the elementary school. He also thanked the PTO who will be chipping in an
additional $39,000 for the project.
3

CEE: Mr. Bailey reported we are scheduled to send out our annual CEE data survey end of
January/early February.
Resource Officer: Mr. Bailey reported there was an MOU, as well as an email from the Chief, to
help answer some of the questions the board had regarding SRO. Additional questions are below:
1.
2.
3.
4.

The School Resource Officer (SRO) would be uniformed and armed.
Liability – According to the MOU the resource officer is employed by the police department.
Hours and days would be determined together by the school district and the police department.
The role of the SRO is outlined in Section II of the attached MOU

Board StudyThere was no board study.
First Reading 6550 Capitalization Threshold for Leases and Subscription-Based Information Technology
Arrangements (SBITAs)- NEW
Non-Substantial or Legal Reference Updates Only 1400/1400P Meeting Conduct, Order of Business and Quorum
Action and Information ItemsThe Board reviewed the following resolutions, contracts and agreements.
ResolutionsMr. Dykstra made a motion to Approve Resolution 2023-24-05- Cancel General Fund Warrants:
 #45803790 Jessica Marshall $1,399.65 void/reissue paycheck with adjusted timesheet
hours
 #45116194 ESD 113 Unemployment $772.63 void/reissue with adjusted amount
 #45116195 ESD Workers Comp $8,382.28 void/reissue with adjusted amount
Mr. Buswell seconded the motion. Motion Passed 5-0 roll call vote.
MiscellaneousMr. Dykstra made a motion to accept the $200,000 Healthy Kids, Healthy Schools Grant from
OSPI for the elementary school playgrounds. Mr. Maier seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Policies to be Adopted by School BoardThere were no policies to be adopted.
AdjournmentMr. Hutchinson moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Buswell seconded the motion. Motion
passed. Meeting adjourned at 7:29p.m.
Approved this 15th day of February, 2024.
_______________________
Brennan Bailey
Secretary to the Board
_______________________
Heidi Buswell, Chairman

_______________________
Brad Dykstra, Vice-Chairman
4

