Toledo School District
Board of Directors
September 19, 2024
The regular meeting of the Board of Directors was called to order at 6:30p.m. by Chairman, Heidi
Buswell. Board members in attendance included Heidi Buswell, Brad Dykstra, Lance Maier, Adam
Hutchinson and Jerad Buswell. Mrs. Buswell asked that anyone taping the meeting identify
themselves so that speakers would know they were being taped. The meeting was convened in person,
but was also held virtually.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Naomi Padgett.
The Land Acknowledgement was read by Mrs. Buswell.
Board AgendaMr. Dykstra made a motion to amend the September 19, 2024 agenda to move the strategic plan to October.
Mr. Buswell seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Mr. Hutchinson made a motion to approve the amended September 19, 2024 agenda. Mr. Buswell
seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Comments/Questions from the Audience-

The board reviewed the email that was submitted.
Teddy Holmes indicate he had kids at TES and TMS. He wanted to know why information about
the school threat the previous Tuesday took so long to go out. Mrs. Buswell indicated the board
doesn’t typically address public comment however, due to the circumstances she asked Mr. Bailey
to speak about the incident and response. Mr. Bailey said the email went out by 9:50a.m. via
School Messenger, Facebook and The Chronicle. Mr. Christensen visited each classroom the
following morning to check on staff and students.
Mr. Dykstra asked what the best form of communication is for families. Mr. Holmes indicated a
robocall. Mrs. Buswell noted the board is very concerned, but also constrained by law as the
individual was a minor and it’s an ongoing investigation.
Guest SpeakersMrs. Buswell presented a certificate of appreciation to Ashley Jacobson and Amy Archer, PTO, for their
$30,000 donation toward the new playground.
Mrs. Buswell presented a certificate of appreciation to Dan and Christina Gorton, Cheese Day Committee,
for their donation of $19,000 for wheelchair ramps and paper. Mr. Dykstra noted that we have had about
$300,000 in donations to support TES outside of tax payer dollars.
Board Community UpdateMr. Buswell had nothing to report.
Mr. Dykstra noted TES pick up has been difficult. His TES student rides to TMS to go with sibling. He
suggested that might work for other parents that have kids at both schools.
Mrs. Buswell had nothing to report.
Mr. Maier had nothing to report.

1

Mr. Hutchinson noted there has been a lot of hard topics and it was a rough week. He felt Mr. Bailey has
been doing a really good job of keeping everyone in the know. He heard there were security concerns at
the TES portables. Mr. Bailey asked for specifics, but he did not have any. He noted a parent suggested
Yondr pouches for each classroom to hold cell phones. Mr. Bailey noted it would be about $20k.
Kaycee Horrace, Senior Board Representative, indicated there is not a lot of storage for students. There is
not a lot of lockers. Lockers would be an easy way to store cell phones. Mrs. Buswell asked about food
services. Kaycee indicated the students are very happy with the food. There are good portions, very
healthy servings. She’s heard really good feedback.
She noted the cell phone policy is being talked about in advisory class. Kaycee feels it's important to have
access to phones.
Naomi Padgett, Junior Board Representative, noted IXL testing scores are really low. Kids she's talked to
said they don't try because the tests don't matter. She asked if IXL testing is necessary if we have SBAC
testing. Mr. Bailey noted that it is important to document growth. He asked how can we make it matter to
kids. Kaycee noted she liked MAPS better than IXL. Mrs. Buswell noted we need to do a better job
explaining to students why the IXL tests matter.
Consent AgendaMr. Buswell made a motion to approve the consent agenda.
 Approve Minutes Regular Meeting
 Approve Minutes Special Meeting
 Approve Payroll and Vouchers
 Approve Resignation of Jill Winters- Social Interventionist
 Approve Resignation of Ryan Arnold- Asst. Baseball Coach THS
 Approve Resignation of Micahel J. Croy- Asst. Baseball Coach THS
 Approve Resignation of Brianna Votaw- Asst. Girls Basketball Coach TMS
 Approve Hire of Celestine Muhareb- Sub Van Driver
 Approve Hire of Kyleigh Holmes- Office Aide Tranportation
 Approve Hire of Sheason Stewart- Social Interventionist
 Approve Hire of Jennifer Swart- Sub Van Driver
 Approve Hire of Mindy Ruiz- Van Driver
 Approve Hire of Mike Croy- Asst. Football Coach THS
 Approve Hire of Pete Hammer- TMS Teacher
 Approve Hire of Mayona Ramirez- Bus Monitor
 Approve Potential Overnight Athletic Trips
 Approve TMS Volleyball Rules
 Approve Interdistrict Agreement 2024-25-03 Toledo SD & Napavine SD- Provision of Ed Svcs.
 Approve Interdistrict Agreement 2024-25-04 Toledo SD & Napavine SD- Provision of Ed Svcs.
 Approve Interdistrict Agreement 2024-25-05 Toledo SD & Napavine SD- Provision of Ed Svcs.
 Approve Interdistrict Agreement 2024-25-06 Toledo SD & Napavine SD- Provision of Ed Svcs.
 Approve Interdistrict Agreement 2024-25-07 Toledo SD & Napavine SD- Provision of Ed Svcs.
 Approve Contract 2024-25-09 ESD 113/Olympic Academy & TSD- Educational Services
 Approve Agreement 2024-25-10 TSD & Adna SD- Highly Capable Services
 Approve Agreement 2024-25-11 TSD & Reboot/R. Henthorn- IT Services
 Approve Agreement 2024-25-13 TSD & Chehalis SD (Visions)- SpEd Services
 Approve Agreement 2024-25-14 TSD & Centralia-Chehalis Pupil Transportation Cooperative
 Approve 2024-25 Student Conduct Manual
Mr. Dykstra seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Maintenance ReportMike Ross, Director of Maintenance and Grounds, reported the following:

2

Toledo High School
 Repaired multiple sprinklers on the football field.
 Prepped and lined for football and soccer.
 Multiple door repairs and adjustments including a broken fire door spring hinge.
 Repaired issues with the heating/cooling of the building, worked with the heating programmer to
work a few bugs out that were creating a situation where heat would be directed to a room when it
should have been in cooling mode. This is an ongoing process and is expected during the first few
years after installing a new heating/cooling system. We are lucky to have Building Intellect as our
programmer/service provider as they are easily reachable and prompt to assist with issues as they
arise.
 Hooked up the lighting for the salad bar as this was never completed during installation.
 Lots of watering, mowing and weeding completed.
 Fixed the fire gate on the track.
 Field goal posts repainted.
 We saved an owl that was caught in the new soccer net.
Toledo Middle School
 Repaired 3” main water line due to leaking coupler.
 Repaired rooftop exhaust fan serving the commons area.
 Repaired 2 sheetrock ceiling areas that had to be removed for the water line repair.
 Repainted the student game lines on the play pad, tetherball poles and under the play shed.
 Installed a fence with a gate on the grass area behind building 2 to accommodate the preschool
playground.
 Repaired 2 sinks, 3 toilets and have ordered parts to replace the door latch of a stall that was kicked
in.
 Rewired multiple fixtures in classrooms where the ballasts went out.
 The TMS ASB ordered pull up bars for the gymnasium and we installed them.
 The TMS ASB ordered bottle fillers for the gymnasium and lower hallway and we installed them.
Toledo Elementary School
 All playgrounds are complete and we have space for future equipment additions if we receive
further funding.
 Ordered a new blower fan for portable 4 as the current one has failed (ground fault) during AC
cycles.
 Replaced the electronic Freezer and Refrigerator thermometers as they were no longer working
reliably.
 Portables 3&4 decks were built by Gary Ingles with the help of our employees - they look amazing.
 Repaired the hot water heater in portable 3.
 Repaired a cabinet that was damaged during the first week of school in portable 3.
 Exteriors of portables 3&4 were painted and trimmed out.
 Door frames and thresholds were repaired/replaced on portables 3&4.
 Interiors and doors painted in Portables 3&4.
 Added downspouts and water diverters to portables 3&4.
 Repaired the freezer twice due to damaged refrigerant lines.
 Bill poured a concrete walkway to connect the ramp to the asphalt.
 All water and sewer connections are complete for portables 3&4.
 Added a crosswalk and signage for portables 3&4 students for a safer crossing.
Softball Complex
 Lewis County Court System sent out workers to prep for their tournament, they did a great job.
Other

3





We have been down to 1 mower for a couple of months now while we await warranty repairs on
our large mower and replacement parts for our old backup mower. It has been a challenge to keep
ahead on the grounds but everyone is working hard to keep things looking good. Much of the work
is being done with a push mower and weed-eaters to keep us going.
Repaired the damaged water line to restore water flow at the bus garage, the line was chewed
through by an animal near the halfway point between the spring and the pump house.

Food Services ReportAaron with Sodexo, thanked the board for the opportunity to serve Toledo. He noted there were photos
uploaded for the board to see. He recognized the food service crew for transitioning to Sodexo and
indicated they are hard-working people. He recognized Brenda the onsite manager. She is in district every
day. He noted the students have been great with all the changes. He reported meal counts have grown
already. He reported there is a nutritional audit once every four years and ours will be this year and he is
cleaning up things for that.
Finance ReportMrs. Lawrence, Business Manager, was absent. Mr. Bailey reported the following:
 Budget Status Report
 Fund Balance Projection
He noted these are Preliminary numbers for August as we finish closing out the 23.24 year over the next
several weeks.
Communications, Correspondence and IntroductionsContracts/Agreements - New
Mr. Dykstra made a motion to approve Agreement 2024-25-08- Lewis County SpEd Co-op & TSD- SpEd
Services. Mr. Buswell seconded the motion. Motion Passed
Mr. Dykstra mad a motion to approve Contract 2024-25-12- TSD & Sodexo- Food Services. Mr.
Hutchinson seconded the motion. Motion Passed
Superintendent's Report-

Mr. Bailey provided an update on enrollment. We are at 863 FTE with a headcount of 885. We are
budgeted at 810 FTE.
Annual Policy Report-#2106 PROGRAM COMPLIANCE
Annually, on or before October 1, the superintendent shall determine if the district is in compliance with
program requirements. Mr. Bailey certified that the District is in compliance with all program
requirements.
-#2190 HIGHLY CAPABLE PROGRAMS
The board will annually approve the district’s highly capable application. Mr. Bailey noted the state has
not launched the SmartSheet for the required Highly Capable Plan. He will report on this when it is
available.
-#2255 ALTERNATIVE LEARNING EXPERIENCE PROGRAMS (ALE)
The district will report annually to OSPI on alternative learning programs and courses offered by the
district. Annually, during a public meeting, the board will approve the ratio of certificated instructional
staff to full time equivalent students. Mr. Bailey reported we currently operate on a 38:1 ratio of
students to certificated staff. This is supplemented by a Paraeducator.
-#3246 USE OF REASONABLE FORCE
The superintendent will provide an annual report to the board regarding the district’s use of force,
including identifying the individuals authorized and trained to use chemical spray or mechanical

4

restraint. Mr. Bailey reported no staff are authorized or trained to use chemical or mechanical
restraints. Staff who may need to use reasonable force with students who are a danger to self/others
have been trained in appropriate techniques as well as de-escalation strategies.
-#3421 CHILD ABUSE, NEGLECT AND EXPOITATION PREVENTION
Staff shall receive training regarding abuse/neglect reporting obligations during their initial orientation
and every three years after their initial employment. Mr. Bailey reported Vector (SafeSchools) training
will be provided to all staff prior to October 31.
-#5202/5202P FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ADMINISTRATION MANDATED DRUG
AND ALCOHOL TESTING PROGRAM
Annually the district will arrange for the unannounced random alcohol and controlled substances testing
of its drivers. Fifty percent (50%) of the district's drivers must be randomly selected for controlled
substances testing each year, and 10% of its drivers for alcohol testing (or whatever level of testing is
required in a given year by the FMCSA). The district shall prepare an annual calendar year summary of
its alcohol and controlled substances testing programs performed. By March 15 each year, the summary
covering the previous year will be completed. Mr. Bailey reported the District has arranged for
unannounced random alcohol and controlled substance testing for bus drivers for 2024-25.
-#6030 FINANCIAL REPORTS
The board recognizes that responding to Public record requests pursuant to Chapter 42.52, RCW is one
of the district's unique and core essential functions, and that full access to information concerning the
conduct of government of every level must be assured as a fundamental and necessary precondition to the
sound governance of a free society. Therefore, each month or quarter, the superintendent will submit to
the board a Public Records Transparency Report that includes a list of all public records requests
received by the district. At its discretion and in an effort to achieve the fullest transparency as to the
public records requests it receives and to which it provides responses, the board or superintendent may
post the report on its website. Mr. Bailey reported we had received one public records requests this
month.
-#6500/6500P RISK MANAGEMENT
The risk manager shall review annually the insurable value of the district's buildings and equipment and
report to the superintendent and supervise an annual inventory of all real property and equipment,
preparing the inventories in duplicate, with one copy maintained in the school and one in the district
office. The board shall review the status of the risk management program each year. Mr. Bailey
reported he had reviewed the insurable value of all district facilities. A copy of our insurable facilities
through USIP was under his report.
-#6605 STUDENT SAFETY WALKING TO SCHOOL AND RIDING BUSES
The superintendent shall establish written rules of conduct for students riding school buses. Such rules
shall include as a minimum the requirements of WAC 392-145-035 and shall be reviewed annually by the
superintendent and revised if necessary. NOTE: All information on the bus rules and safe walking are
posted on the District website under transportation and the walking zone. Mr. Bailey reported bus
conduct rules are being revised. Safe walking routes are posted to the website. We will be doing the
regular reevaluation of these routes this year.
-#6630 DRIVER TRAINING AND RESPONSIBILITY
A school bus driver is required to maintain and carry a valid Department of Transportation (DOT)
medical examiner’s certificate and to demonstrate annually their continued ability to pass the
Superintendent of Public Instruction school bus driver physical certification requirement. Mr. Bailey
confirmed that our drivers are appropriately licensed.
-#6640 SCHOOL-OWNED VEHICLES
At the beginning of each school year, the superintendent will provide the board with a list of staff

5

members who are assigned a school-owned vehicle on a 24-hour basis. Mr. Bailey reported Mike Ross is
the only employee assigned a district vehicle on a 24-hour basis.
Strategic Plan- This was moved to the October meeting.
Board Planning Calendar – Mr. Bailey reported this was included under his report for the board to
review.
Communication Plan – Mr. Bailey reported a rough draft of the communication plan was included for the
board to review. He noted this is an ongoing working document.
Smarter Balanced Test Results- Mr. Bailey noted this shows how Toledo math, ELA and science scores
compare to other nearby schools and also bigger schools in the state.
Drivers- Mr. Bailey reported there will be 5 new people doing CDL training with our new in-house driver
trainers. Adriana and Kyleigh will both be participating.
November Board Meeting- Mr. Bailey noted the WSSDA Annual Conference will be held during the
regularly scheduled board meeting so we will need to reschedule the November meeting. He noted this is
listed under misc. action.
Cell Phone Policy- Mr. Bailey noted our current cell phone policy was included in his report. He asked the
board to let him know if there are any changes or additions. He noted the next ACT meeting would include
discussions with staff. Mrs. Buswell recommended having staff use the policy. The board would like to
revisit next month.
1 Tier Bus Update- Mr. Bailey noted considering the drastic change everything is going well. We will
continue to tweak problems when, and if, they arise. It has been great to have students at each school show
up around the same time and not lose academic time for sports.
Board StudyThe strategic plan was moved to October when the agenda was amended.
First ReadingThere were no first reads for review.
Non-Substantial or Legal Reference Updates OnlyThere were no non-substantial or legal reference for review.
Action and Information ItemsThe Board reviewed the following resolutions, contracts and agreements.
ResolutionsThere were no resolutions to approve.
MiscellaneousMr. Dykstra made a motion to move the November Board Meeting to Wednesday, November 20, 2024.
Mr. Hutchinson seconded the motion. Motion Passed
Mr. Huffman indicated the senior class would like to paint parking spaces. This would be a fundraiser. Mr.
Dykstra made a motion to approve painting of the senior parking spaces. Mr. Buswell seconded the
motion. Motion passed. The board indicated they would like consistency in the outline of the space.

6

The board discussed attendance at the WSSDA General Assembly. Mr. Hutchinson will attend as an
observer and will report back to the board.
Contracts/Agreements- New
There were no new contracts or agreements to review.
Policies to be Adopted by School BoardThere were not policies to be adopted by the school board.
AdjournmentMr. Dykstra moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Hutchinson seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Meeting adjourned at 7:59p.m.
Approved this 17th day of October, 2024.
_______________________
Brennan Bailey
Secretary to the Board
_______________________
Heidi Buswell
Chairman

_______________________
Brad Dykstra
Vice-Chairman

7

