Toledo School District
Board of Directors
May 16, 2024
The regular meeting of the Board of Directors was called to order at 6:30p.m. by Vice Chairman,
Brad Dykstra. Board members in attendance included Brad Dykstra, Jerad Buswell, Lance Maier and
Adam Hutchinson. Heidi Buswell was absent. Mr. Dykstra asked that anyone taping the meeting
identify themselves so that speakers would know they were being taped. The meeting was convened
in person, but was also held virtually.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Cooper Fallon.
The Land Acknowledgement was read by Brad Dykstra.
Board AgendaMr. Buswell made a motion to amend the agenda to move the hiking club review to guest speakers and add
decorating graduation caps to misc. action. Mr. Maier seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Mr. Maier made a motion to approve the amended May 16, 2024 agenda. Mr. Buswell seconded the
motion. Motion passed.
Good News in SchoolCourtney Grove and Doris Brady invited Cowlitz Prairie Academy students to present their artwork.
Comments/Questions from the AudienceThere were no comments or questions.
Guest SpeakersKrista Kondro and students Cooper and Stella attended the meeting and gave an overview of the
hiking club. They noted the would do a couple different hikes each year. They would learn safety and
work toward a big trip in the summer. They have 20 students signed up so far.
Mr. Buswell made a motion to approve the hiking club. Mr. Hutchinson seconded the motion.
Motion passed.
Board Community UpdateMrs. Buswell was absent.
Mr. Dykstra had lunch at THS that day. He noted it was pretty good, but some kids wish there was more.
Mr. Buswell noted youth baseball was crazy and they had a huge turnout.
Mr. Maier congratulated Mack Gaul on being the league coach of the year and Jeff Davis for being the cocoach of the year. He congratulated Quyn Norberg on being selected to first team all-league. He wished
the fastpitch and track teams good luck in qualifying for state. He noted after participating in mock
graduation parents and teachers should be proud and have done a great job preparing these senior for their
futures. Mass band was a huge success with 13 schools participating.
Mr. Hutchinson noted he had breakfast that day at the school. He said decent food some better than
others. Quyn noted the breakfast parfait is a good option. Kaycee noted some food gives her stomach
ache, but good variety of food.
Kaycee Horrace, Junior Board Representative, presented the following:
Middle School Report-

1

“We are getting ready for the end of the year! We finished the first week of SBA testing this week and will
have two more weeks, followed by IXL testing. Then the fun starts! The yearbook has been sent off to the
printer, we are planning our last assembly, the 8th grade field trip is set for June 11, and the 6th and 7th
grade field day will be that day as well. Sign-ups for ASB elections are happening, and we have planned
the 8th grade visit to the high school. The 5th graders will join us to hear ASB speeches and election of
new officers, as well as a tour of their new school. And our 8th grade promotion assembly will be on the
last day of school.”
CPAPresenting their highlights.
Junior classAt the end of April, the junior class hosted and planned the 24-25 prom, and overcame many challenges
doing so, such as different schedules from running start, and barely any participation in the planning.
The junior class also elected “new officers” for senior year, Bomani Birdwell as president, Bryson Trosper
as Vice President, Kaycee Horrace as Secretary and Kainani Keahola as treasurer.
We are in search of a new junior board representative for next year, as our senior representative Quyn
Norberg will be graduating this year. This will be students who have shown intense leadership skills, and
being involved in school life.
Quyn Norberg, Senior Board Representative, presented the following:
TES:
 3rd and 4th grade spring testing is complete.
 5th grade will finish state testing next week.
 3rd graders are doing swimming lessons this week at Thorebecks.
 TES Life Skills students are going on a field trip to the zoo Wednesday 5/22/24.
 5/22/24 2nd graders and 3rd graders go on field trips to the Hands on Children's Museum and Mt. St.
Helens.
 5/31/24 SW WA Dance Center will be putting on a H.S. Musical Assembly for TES. K-2 at 9:5010:20, 3-5 from 10:45-11:15.
 6/4/24 4th and 5th grade field trips to Rainiers game and Rollerdome.
 6/5/24 1st grade field trip to the zoo.
THS:
1) FFA news- State FFA Leadership Conference was attended in Pullman on the 8th-12th.
Mr. Ball accompanied...
● Kasen Ball- State Degree Recipient/Milk Quality Team
● Zack Smith-Milk Quality Team
● Hailee Turner- State Degree Recipient/Milk Quality Team
● Billie Randall-State Degree Recipient/Chapter Delegate/Talent
● Naomi Padgett-Milk Quality Team
● Hailee Turner took 2nd as an individual for Dairy Foods out of 165 participants.
● The THS team was 4th overall out of 38 schools.
● Billie Randall made it to Finals for State Talent. She performed for over 500 people in the WSU
auditorium singing 'Jolene' (a Coffee House favorite at THS)
The THS team worked on leadership skills, networked and collaborated with students from around the
State. They also competed in a state level competition in Milk Quality and Products along with sampling
college life at WSU and U of I Moscow.

2

Cool facts about Toledo FFA
-THS had 4 State Degree Recipients this year
-Toledo has one American Degree Candidate this year, alum Macy Ball.
-State and American degrees are huge honors that remain on individual resumes for life.
2) Mr. Hoogkamer hosted Mass Band this year on Tues the 14th with 13 bands from;
● Williapa Valley, Naselle, Kalama, Toutle, Wahkiakum, Rainier, Ony, Ilwaco, South Bend, Castle
Rock, Winlock, Pe Ell and Toledo.
● All bands, about 300 students, convened at THS by 9 am, participated in competitions, lunch at 1,
seating 1:45 followed by rehearsal from 2-4 then honor band, dinner at 4:40, and completing the
day with a concert at 6 pm.
● Toledo Band Aide organized the lunch and dinner for all students, directors and adjudicators of the
concert.
3) Two Hands on the Wheel will be sponsoring a Traffic Safety Week Tues the 28th through Fri the 31.
Tuesday features a safety assembly and explanation of the week.
● Wednesday is a seat belt check at the entrance of THS and a noticeable police presence around
town.
● Thursday is Tap Out Day which involves students being tagged, those that are willing, to be the
victims of a car accident.
● Friday is the finale with a Mock Car Crash, Court, Funeral and reminder to be safe this summer
and beyond.
4) Mock Job Interviews for Seniors was held Wednesday May 15th at the Baptist Church. Representatives
from Local Businesses, the Military, Lewis County Emergency Management, Patrons of Toledo School
District and area volunteers helped with the interview process, a graduation requirement of our Advisory
classes.
5) Track has athletes going to state, and Fastpitch is in the district tournament working hard to punch their
ticket to state next week as well.
Consent AgendaMr. Maier made a motion to approve the consent agenda.
 Approve Minutes Regular Meeting April 18, 2024
 Payroll and Vouchers
 Approve Resignation of Corrine Holt- Bus Monitor
 Approve Hire of Mack Gaul- Asst. Coach Football- THS
 Approve Hire of Brent Wood- Asst. Coach Boys Basketball- THS
 Approve Hire of Rob Nollan- Asst. Coach Cross Country- THS
 Approve Hire of Macy Shannon- Asst. Coach Girls Soccer- THS
 Approve THS Hiking Club- ASB approved- not a stipend advisor
 Approve THS Creative Writing Club- ASB approved- not a stipend advisor
 Approve Agreement 2024-25-02 Kraig-X-Skape & TSD- CTE coordination
 Approve Agreement 2023-24-34- Toledo Community Foundation & TSD- espresso machine
Mr. Buswell seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Maintenance ReportMike Ross, Director of Maintenance and Grounds, was absent. The following report was available on
BoardDocs.
Toledo High School
Seeded the road frontage area where the erosion control was added.

3

Added crosswalks at the Football field entry and at the memorial area walkway crossing.
We repaired the carpet in a classroom where a cellphone had caught fire and burned the carpet.
Someone had flushed a vape in the varsity locker room which required removal of the toilet after which we
fished it out of the sewer pipe where it had lodged and backed up the sewer.
Toledo Middle School
Pressure washed the retaining wall on 5th St side and repainted it.
Removed the dead plants and weeds from the 5th St side garden bed.
Installed a timer on the solar powered lights in the reader board. This helps preserve the battery power for
hours where people will be out driving and will give the battery a better lifespan.
We pressure washed the concrete bleachers and retaining wall.
Pressure washed the curb and parking lot on street side
Bleached and pressure washed the north face of building 1 and 2 to remove algae.
Toledo Elementary School
Repaired a broken door closer and adjusted several doors.
A toilet in one of the classrooms had sheared off toilet bolts, when we pulled the toilet to replace them we
found that the original bolts were poured into the concrete so we had to add a flange and new bolts to reinstall the toilet.
Removed the bark and dead plants from the front of the school to help eliminate the bug problem in the front
classrooms and also to beautify the front of the school.
Softball Complex
Graded the parking lot and access road.
Removed broken branches from the roadside greenbelt after the high winds.
Cleaned up the brush and trees at the main entrance.
Repaired the building where the new meter was installed.
Food Services ReportAngela Hunsaker was absent. Hossian and Drew gave presentation. They discussed not throwing food
away and also giving seconds to students. They are working on ways to improve meals for students. Mr.
Dykstra asked if there was any equipment we could buy with food service balance. Hossian said possibly
at MS.
Finance ReportMrs. Lawrence, Business Manager, reported the following:
 Budget Status Report
 Fund Balance Projection
She noted we finished the audit the previous week and it went well overall. They gave recommendation for
fund balance. She noted we received the delivery of new buses and we are getting other buses up on
maintenance. The RFP for food services is into OSPI. She attended the ASB meetings for budget for next
year.
Communications, Correspondence and IntroductionsThe board reviewed the track and field letter from a community member.
Superintendent's ReportMr. Bailey provided an update on enrollment. We are at 812.57 FTE with a headcount of 832. We are
budgeted at 810 FTE.
Annual Policy Report#5050 CONTRACTS

4

The district shall contract annually with each applicable staff member. Mr. Bailey reported that Notices of
Continuances have been sent to certificated staff.
#6030 FINANCIAL REPORTS
The board recognizes that responding to Public record requests pursuant to Chapter 42.52, RCW is one of
the district's unique and core essential functions, and that full access to information concerning the
conduct of government of every level must be assured as a fundamental and necessary precondition to the
sound governance of a free society. Therefore, each month or quarter, the superintendent will submit to the
board a Public Records Transparency Report that includes a list of all public records requests received by
the district. At its discretion and in an effort to achieve the fullest transparency as to the public records
requests it receives and to which it provides responses, the board or superintendent may post the report on
its website. Mr. Bailey report there have been no public records request this month.
WIAA Resolution: Mr. Bailey reported this annual resolution had not been received.
Superintendent Evaluation- Mr. Bailey noted that his evaluation would be at the June meeting.
Recording of Board Meetings- Mr. Bailey reported that beginning next month we would be required to
record board meetings.
Board StudyThere was no board study.
First ReadingThere were no first reads for review.
Non-Substantial or Legal Reference Updates OnlyThere were no non-substantial or legal reference for review.
Executive SessionThe board convened into Executive Session at 7:30p.m to receive and evaluate complaints or charges
brought against a director or staff member. It was noted action may be taken.
Mr. Dykstra announced the regular meeting would resume at 8p.m.
At 8p.m. Mr. Dykstra announced the Executive Session would be extended to 8:30p.m.
At 8:30p.m. Mr. Dykstra announced the Executive Session would be extended to 9p.m.
At 9p.m. the board returned from Executive Session and the regular meeting was resumed.
Action and Information ItemsThe Board reviewed the following resolutions, contracts and agreements.
MiscellaneousMr. Hutchinson made a motion to direct the superintendent to refer the complaints against a staff member
to a neutral 3rd party to investigate. Mr. Buswell seconded the motion. Motion passed with a 3-0 roll call
vote. Mr. Maier recused himself from voting.
Mr. Maier made a motion to approve decorating of graduation caps. Mr. Buswell seconded the motion.
Motion passed.
Resolutions-

5

Mr. Hutchinson made a motion to approve Resolution 2023-24-13- Authorization to apply for the RCO
Track Grant. Mr. Maier seconded the motion. Motion Passed with a 4-0 roll call vote.
Mr. Hutchinson made a motion to approve Resolution 2023-24-14 Cancel General Fund Warrant
#45116445 in the amount of $5,015.81- Otis Elevator- Lost/Reissue. Mr. Maier seconded the motion.
Motion Passed with a 4-0 roll call vote.
Contracts/Agreements- New
There were no new contracts or agreements to review.
Policies to be Adopted by School BoardThere were not policies to be adopted by the school board.
AdjournmentMr. Hutchinson moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Buswell seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Meeting adjourned at 9:03p.m.
Approved this 20th day of June, 2024.
_______________________
Brennan Bailey
Secretary to the Board
_______________________
Heidi Buswell
Chairman

_______________________
Brad Dykstra
Vice-Chairman

6

