Toledo School District
Board of Directors
March 18, 2024
The regular meeting of the Board of Directors was called to order at 6:30p.m. by Chairman,
Heidi Buswell. Board members in attendance included Heidi Buswell, Brad Dykstra, Jerad
Buswell and Lance Maier. Adam Hutchinson was absent. Mrs. Buswell asked that anyone
taping the meeting identify themselves so that speakers would know they were being taped.
The meeting was convened in person, but was also held virtually.
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mike Ross.
The Land Acknowledgement was read by Heidi Buswell.
Board AgendaMr. Buswell made a motion to approve the March 18, 2024 agenda as presented. Mr. Dykstra
seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Good News in SchoolMr. Huffman report that spring sports had started, there was a band concert and coffee house
coming up. He noted there was a student blues band from Kalama coming to THS. He reported
THS would host massed band. Leadership is doing Monday assemblies. He noted that day they
did a Kahoot for women’s history month.
Comments/Questions from the AudienceThere were no comments or questions.
Guest SpeakersThere were no guest speakers.
Board Community UpdateMrs. Buswell had nothing to report.
Mr. Dykstra reported the levy information presented at the Lions club meeting was well received.
Mr. Buswell noted youth baseball had field clean up. He reported a lots of kids turned out.
Mr. Maier reported we have 34 high school track kids and 35 middle school track kids, 45 high
school kids in baseball, 23 girls in fastpitch and 16 boys in soccer.
Mr. Hutchinson was absent.
Kaycee Horrace, Junior Board Representative, presented the following:
Middle School Spring sports has started, and we have 38 kids out for track, as well as 8th graders
participating in high school softball and baseball.


For second trimester, we have 47 students who earned Honor Roll recognition and 79
students who earned Principal's List recognition. Students who earned that recognition have
the opportunity to go on a field trip to the Centralia Rollerdrome.
1





The TMS band had a great concert on March 6 and will be attending the Massed Band event
on April 22.
Student Led Conferences have all been scheduled, and students did their final preparations for
those conferences in advisory today.
We have also scheduled all of our spring testing, with ELA SBA testing the week of May 13,
Math SBA testing the week of May 20, WCAS testing the week of May 27, and the Final
round of IXL testing the week of June 3.

CPA We have increased our enrollment since February. We have added (5) new students and are
working hard to help our students be successful. We greet each day with a smile and are
willing to take on the new challenges.
Quyn Norberg, Senior Board Representative, was absent. The following report was available in
Boarddocs.
TES Celebrates “Responsible” at the Student of the Month Assmebly
 The TES PTO just held a seed fundraiser and had great participation
 Teachers and PTO are starting to plan end of the year field trips
 Students are excited to be starting the growing their own garden
THS





Spring sports are off and running with a strong start
Band, choir, and drama have all had their spring concerts and performances
This month’s Coffee House is on Wednesday
Seniors are starting their last trimester and beginning to decide their future plans
Spring Student-Led Conferences are next week

Consent AgendaMr. Dykstra made a motion to approve the consent agenda.
 Approve Minutes Regular Meeting February 15, 2024
 Approve Payroll and Vouchers
 Approve Resignation of Tony Zamorano- Asst. Boys Basketball Coach- THS
 Approve Hire of Margie Bannan- Asst. Track Coach- TMS
 Approve Hire of Shawn Leggett- Asst. Track Coach- TMS
 Approve 2023-24-33 Victor-Four/Jerry Gates & TDS- Labor Relations
Mr. Maier seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Maintenance ReportMike Ross, Director of Maintenance and Grounds, reported the following:
Toledo High School
 Repaired the wheelchair lift in the Gym due to a weight bench being placed in front of the
automatic door which broke the connecting rod to the hydraulic mechanism when it was
opening.
 Replaced the seals and flanges on the toilets in the girl’s concession bathrooms as they
were leaking/damaged.
 De-winterized the concessions building and well pump house.
 Completed the fire pump 6 month check and ran the monthly pump test.
2











Baseball field prepped for season – we ordered minimal materials due to budget
constraints.
We have been doing erosion remediation at the road frontage portion of the school where
the culvert had made a large ditch. Thanks to Alan Buswell for sharing his knowledge of
how to best stop this problem and to Bill Nelson for all his hard work implementing the
plan.
Patched/repaired the 2 broken boards on the gym floor.
Added gravel to the delivery truck turnaround behind the school.
Dug out and added sand to the jump pit, thanks to Don Schaplow for donating the 3 tons of
sand.
Repaired cabinet door in the athletics storage room that had been torn off.
Replaced baseball concessions lighting with LED tubes.
Replaced failed faucet in the concessions.

Toledo Middle School
 Repaired multiple doors and adjusted the closers.
 Repaired the water bottle filling station due to vandalism.
 Replaced broken door stops throughout the building.
 Thanks to the University of Washington for donating a pair of solar panels and a solar
controller that we installed on/in the reader board to provide back lighting. Most of the
other parts (i.e tracks, battery and lighting) were donated by maintenance staff. The school
provided the photocell and wiring for the project (roughly $18).
 Removed the vandalized feminine hygiene dispenser from the commons bathroom.
Toledo Elementary School
 Replaced 16 outdated CFL light fixtures in the classroom bathrooms with new high
efficiency LED fixtures. The old fixtures were failing and the replacement fixtures were
less than the cost of new ballasts.
 Replaced the warped bathroom door for the boy’s bathroom in the commons.
 Replaced the old “yellow” lights with daylight bulbs on the exterior of the building.
 Met with the playground provider/installer and they reviewed both sites (Big Kids &
Littles) and they were able to find a few discounts that will ensure we stay within the grant
budget.
 Continuing to repair and paint in the new portables as time permits.
Softball Complex
 De-Winterized the concessions building.
 Softball field prepped for season – we ordered minimal materials due to budget constraints.
 Roadside trees were trimmed up, bushes were removed on the perimeter of the parking lot
and all debris was burned.
 Re-wired the fixtures and changed the crow’s nest area lights to LEDs.
Other



All staff have been working hard and continuing with routine maintenance of the facilities
and grounds, we continue to defer larger projects until funding is available and are tackling
emergency items as they happen.
We did not get the ADA grant or the Urgent Repair grants that we applied for, and will
have to wait for the next grant period to apply again.
3



We did get a grant for the Clean Buildings Energy Assessment to audit our buildings
energy systems and provide recommendations for upgrades. This will help when we
pursue the Small District Modernization grant that will be coming up next year. I am
meeting with providers to get quotes for the ASHRAE Level 2 audit and expect the audit
to take place near the end of the school year.

Food Services ReportAngela Hunsaker was absent. Her report was available in Boarddocs.
Finance ReportMrs. Lawrence, Business Manager, reported the following:
 Budget Status Report
 Fund Balance Projection
She noted we received transportation safety net and hope to get special education safety net
too. Additionally, we are right in the middle of the audit and in April will start budget prep for next
year.
Communications, Correspondence and IntroductionsThere were no communications or correspondence to review.
Principal’s Reports Dave Hopf reviewed the Star assessments for TES. He presented the math and
ELA student growth reports by grade level.
 Sheila Holter reviewed student growth for ELA and math. She noted 6th grade all made
growth with the exception of one student.
 Martin Huffman IXL review for ELA and math. He noted the staff met as a group to
discuss how to improve. SBAC testing is good, IXL is not as good.
 Brennan Bailey report CPA will start using IXL next school year. Mr. Huffman is working
on more IXL licenses for CPA.
Superintendent's ReportMr. Bailey provided an update on enrollment. We are at 817.10 FTE with a headcount of 846. We
are budgeted at 810 FTE.
Annual Policy Report-#1610- CONFLICTS OF INTEREST 2ND CLASS DISTRICTS
The superintendent shall maintain a log of any contract subject to this policy and annually or
when a new director assumes office, shall inform the board of the existence of all such
contracts. Mr. Bailey noted this log is maintained at the district office. No conflicts of interest
exist under this policy at this time.
-#5011/5011P- SEXUAL HARASSMENT OF DISTRICT STAFF PROHIBITED
The superintendent shall make an annual report to the board reviewing the use and efficiency
of this policy and related procedures. Recommendations for changes to this policy, if
applicable, shall be included in the report. The superintendent is encouraged to involve staff,
students, and volunteers and parents in the review process. Mr. Bailey reported all staff received
training in sexual harassment and discrimination as required by law in August. No changes
to this policy or procedure are recommended.
-#6030- FINANCIAL REPORTS
4

The board recognizes that responding to Public record requests pursuant to Chapter
42.52, RCW is one of the district’s unique and core essential functions, and that full access to
information concerning the conduct of government of every level must be assured as a
fundamental and necessary precondition to the sound governance of a free society. Therefore,
each month or quarter, the superintendent will submit to the board a Public Records
Transparency Report that includes a list of all public records requests received by the district.
At its discretion and in an effort to achieve the fullest transparency as to the public records
requests it receives and to which it provides responses, the board or superintendent may post
the report on its website. Mr. Bailey Reported we received one public records request this
month.
Reduction in Force (RIF): Mr. Bailey reported it may be necessary to eliminate some positions.
He requested authority to make these adjustments. He noted this was included in the board packet.
This resolution does not require the district to RIF, but is required in the event a reduction in force
is necessary.
Change Order #32: Mr. Bailey noted this was a change order from April of last year. It has been
paid and this will add no further expense to the district, however, the change order still needs to be
approved by the board. He noted the change order was in his report.
Levy Facts: Mr. Bailey reported the draft levy flyer was included in his report. He noted this had
been created with input from various stakeholders. He asked the board for feedback on the flyer.
They thought it looked good.
Board Self Evaluation: Mr. Bailey noted that last year they were interested in doing their selfevaluations around this time. He noted with the work being done, and the work yet to be done in
regard to the levy, he hoped to do this during the May meeting. They board agreed to do this at
the end of May.
THS Listening Session – Mr. Bailey asked the board if they would like to continue doing the levy
listening sessions with the student. The board would like to continue to do this. Mr. Bailey noted
he would work with Mr. Huffman to organizing this.
Additionally, Mrs. Buswell asked Mr. Bailey to coordinate the application process for next year’s
student board representative with Mr. Huffman and Kaycee.
Board Resolution (Levy) – Mr. Bailey reported Resolution 2023-24-11 was included in the
agenda. He noted this resolution allows board members to speak on behalf of the district about the
levy, as highlighted in the PDC doc that had been attached. He noted he gave each of them a hard
copy of the superintendent portion of the PDC guidelines of what a school board member can and
cannot do during a levy campaign.
Board StudyThere was no board study.
First ReadingThere were no first reads for review.
Non-Substantial or Legal Reference Updates OnlyThere were no non-substantial or legal reference for review.
5

Action and Information ItemsThe Board reviewed the following resolutions, contracts and agreements.
ResolutionsMr. Dykstra made a motion to approve Resolution 2023-24-08 Warrant Cancellation-Warrant
#45114098 Ally Pest Management - Lost/Reissue. Mr. Maier seconded the motion. Motion
Passed with a 4-0 roll call vote.
Mr. Maier made a motion to approve Resolution 2023-24-09 Certified Staff Reduction for the
2024-25 School Year. Mr. Buswell seconded the motion. Motion Passed with a 4-0 roll call vote.
Mr. Buswell made a motion to approve Resolution 2023-24-10 Classified Staff Reduction for the
2024-25 School Year. Mr. Dykstra seconded the motion. Motion Passed with a 4-0 roll call vote.
Mr. Dykstra made a motion to approve Resolution 2023-24-11 Board Support of the Levy. Mr.
Maier seconded the motion. Motion Passed with a 4-0 roll call vote.
Contracts/Agreements- New
There were no new contracts or agreements to review.
MiscellaneousMr. Dykstra made a motion to approve change order #32. Mr. Buswell seconded the motion.
Motion passed.
Policies to be Adopted by School BoardMr. Dykstra made a motion to approve the policies as presented.
 1611 Conflicts of Interest (Districts with fewer than 2,000 students)
 2230 Transition to Kindergarten Program (NEW)
 3207/3207P Prohibition of Harassment, Intimidation, and Bullying of Students
 6220/6220P Bid or Request for Proposal Requirements
 6605/6605P Student Safety Walking, Biking, and Riding Buses
Mr. Maier seconded the motion. Motion Passed.
AdjournmentMr. Dykstra moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Buswell seconded the motion. Motion passed.
Meeting adjourned at 7:21p.m.
Approved this 18th day of April, 2024.
_______________________
Brennan Bailey
Secretary to the Board
_______________________
Heidi Buswell
Chairman

_______________________
Brad Dykstra
Vice-Chairman

6

