Work Session at 4:30PM (Monday, February 26, 2024)
PUBLIC MEETING OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Meeting Location: Wapato School District Office Boardroom, 212 West 3rd St, Wapato, WA 98951
Meeting called to order at 7:29 PM
1. Opening Item
Call to Order: Board President John Francisco called the meeting to order at 4:30pm.
Pledge of Allegiance
Verification of Quorum: All members present: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
2. WORK SESSION
Review of 2024 Capital Projects: Kevin Hill, Executive Director, presented a list of completed capital projects, projected projects and other projects. He explained in detail each project, location, estimated cost and identified the service need: major, minor, athletic, deferred maintenance or safety. He clarified projects funded by a grant are not listed. The lists of projects presented are funded by capital projects budget. Sylvia Bazan explained the capital projects budget account, set aside amounts for pending projects, projects completed and not paid or projects pending completion from the approved 2023 capital projects. The Board reviewed the information and engaged in discussion. Mr. Hill explained the process for selecting companies to complete a project, estimates vs. quote, the formal bid process, and explained all major projects over $45,000 require 3 bids and the lowest bid is selected. The Board asked why the District does not use more local companies. Mr. Hill explained not all companies are approved to work on school district grounds. Companies must meet requirements and guidelines set by the State such as all employees must pass a sex offender check and obtain all required permits, and that is a timely process that not all companies are able to fulfill the requirements set by the State.
Mr. Hill presented and explained in detail his recommendation of the 12 capital projects priority for 2024. The Board reviewed and discussed the items and provided feedback.  The Board requested to add the Partitions for the Middle School to the list.
Mr. Garza and Mr. Hill will make changes to priority projects as requested by the Board and bring forward at the next school board meeting the final recommendation 2024 Capital Projects for Board approval.
3. Adjourn
The Board concluded the work session at 5:30pm and Board President John Francisco declared the meeting adjourned.