Special Meeting at 8:30AM (Friday, June 28, 2024)
PUBLIC MEETING OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Meeting Location: Centennial Room, Yakima Valley Museum, 2105 Tieton Dr, Yakima, WA 98902
1. Opening Item
Call to Order: Board President John Francisco called the meeting to order at 8:30am.
Verification of Quorum: All members present: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
Pledge of Allegiance
2. Cabinet Reports: 2024-2025 Priorities
Safety & Security, Equity, MTSS - Tavis Peterson, Assistant Superintendent, present
Teaching and Learning - Shannon Torres, Executive Director of Teaching and Learning
Construction/Capital Projects - Kevin Hill, Executive Director
Technology & Assessment – Maria Batarao, Executive Director of Technology & Assessment
Financial Update – Sylvia Bazan, Director of Fiscal Services
Each administrator presented the priorities for each department ,respectively, for the 2024-25 school year. The Board engaged in discussion of safety and security, equity, student success, community engagement, technology, academic achievement, capital projects, transportation, employee attendance, recruiting and retention, and fiscal stability and business office priorities.
3. Professional Development, Evaluation of the Board and Goal Setting
Effective Board Governance: Cynthia McMullen, WSSDA Leadership, presented an update of school board responsibilities and roles: Use of social media and personal devices, review of school board governance, and Board and Superintendent roles and responsibilities.
Evaluation of the Board and Goal Setting: The Board briefly reviewed the results of the WSSDA Self-Assessment and EES results. The board postponed the evaluation and goal setting to a future meeting for further review of the evaluation results to help guide, prioritize and set board goals.
Annual Goals and Objectives: Superintendent Kelly Garza, presented the Superintendent 2024-2025 goals for student achievement, safety and security, equity, technology and CTE, and operations and management.  The Board consensus set the Superintendent goals for 2024-25 as presented with the addition to expand CTE.  The Board tasked Superintendent Garza for an update of the Superintendent Voice Matters Group. Superintendent Garza will draft a plan of tentative activities and discussion topics for the 2024-25 school year.
4. Closing Remarks
No closing remarks.
5. Adjourn
The Board completed its order of business as scheduled on the agenda and with no further business to consider, Board President John Francisco declared the meeting adjourned at 3:35PM.