Regular Board Meeting at 5:30 PM (Wednesday, May 29, 2024)
PUBLIC MEETING OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Meeting Location: District Office Boardroom, 212 West 3rd Street, Wapato, WA 98951
1. Opening Item
Call to Order: Board President John Francisco called the meeting to order at 5:30PM.
Pledge of Allegiance
Verification of Quorum: Members present: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
Lorenzo Alvarado was not present.
Agenda: Approval of the agenda as presented.
Motion by Javier Vela, second by Sarah Divina.    Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
Minutes: Approval of the May 13, 2024 Regular Meeting Minutes as presented.
Motion by Javier Vela, second by Lori Garcia.       Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
2. Public Comments
None
3. RECOGNITION
The following were recognized and received a Superintendent Award.
SUPER STUDENTS
Abraham B. Miller, 1st Grade – Simcoe Elementary
Camille Huibregtse, 2nd Grade – Camas Elementary
Lijah I. Mendoza, 3rd Grade – Adams Elementary
Dayanne Obispo Rodriguez, 4th Grade – Satus Elementary
Kellen J. Lamebull-KlineKole, 4th Grade – Adams Elementary
Samantha Esquivel-Martinez, 4th Grade – Adams Elementary
Aislinn D. Pacheco Flores, 5th Grade – Adams Elementary
SUPER STAFF TEAM: Assessment Team: Gloria Romero, Joel Perez, Armando Garcia – Satus Elementary
SUPER PARENT: Lorena Lopez – Simcoe Elementary
SUPER SPONSOR: Wapato Citizens for Better Schools & Planning Bond Task Force
Alejandra Rodriguez (PBTF)
Angel Ruiz (PBTF)
Bernadine Guerrero (PBTF)
Casey Huibregtse (PBTF)
Chris Klebaum (PBTF)
David Blakney (PBTF)
Diana Hernandez (PBTF)
Geo Viernes(WCBS/PBTF)
Hannah Maina (PBTF)
Jonathan Pfeffer (PBTF)
Jose Carmona (PBTF)
Katie Traub (WCBS/PBTF)
Kevin Hill (PBTF)
Mark Reynolds (WCBS)
Meghan Gomez (WCBS)
Mel Rigdon (PBTF)
Mike Balmelli (PBTF)
Mona Miranda (PBTF)
Paul Zagelow (WCBS/PBTF)
Ricardo Valdez (WCBS)
Sylvia Bazan (PBTF)
Tavis Peterson (PBTF)
Tom Silva (WCBS/PBTF)
  At 5:52pm, the Board took a brief recess to excuse the audience that wanted to leave the meeting. The resumed the regular meeting at 5:55pm.
4. Reports
Superintendent's Report: Kelly Garza, Superintendent reported:
A WHS student unexpectedly passed away last week. He held a moment of silence and offered condolences to family and friends. He informed WHS staff have been provided support to all students in that classroom.  Emotional support also made available to staff.
As of today, there are 126 kindergarten and 50 Transitional Kinder students register for the coming school year.  This enrollment number is progressively increasing compare to same time last year.
There are many end of year activities taking place throughout the District. As per the Boards goal to be more visible, Mr. Garza listed the many events and invited Board member to attend.
Graduations are taking place next week and asked the Board about passing out diplomas. The board engaged in discussion and the consensus was that all will attend the ceremonies and all will rotate handing out diplomas at each graduation.
Construction Update: Kevin Hill, Executive Director, reported he has visited with many constriction and architect companies over the past 10 days and has received good interest and is very optimistic about the project. He has met with PRC regarding the approved progressive design model.  He talked about his experience at the PRC Board presenting for a progressive design model.  After the presentation the District received a 100% unanimous approval to proceed and is looking forward to a successful project.  He received a call last week from Mark Brown, regarding SCAP. The district was informed that OPSI mis calculated the match funding available for PACE and explained the issue in detail. He informed the Board, with the new correction in the calculation by OSPI, the District will now receive $0.00 of match funding for this project.  He explained how this information impacts the DForms process. The District will need to utilize solely bond funding to construct PACE HS.  He said by next spring the District will be eligible for some match funding for the Elementary build.  He explained the process in detail and detailed a timeline of steps, events, and funding. He noted the zero-match funding for the PACE project does not impact the taxpayer and it does not change the order the District will expense the funds.  He said OPSI has acknowledged their error.  Superintendent Kelly Garza reported he visited D.A. Davidson today and was a part of the 1st bond sale. He talked about his experience in that process.  He reported the next bond sale will be in December 2025.  Mr. Hill said the next steps in the construction process is to request for qualifications beginning next week and then request for proposals. The plan is to being the selection and planning of the project in June.  Sylvia Bazan, Director of Fiscal Services reported the district is due to receive bond sale funding by June 18. She will need to come forward with a budget extension to expense the bond sale funds.
Yakama Tribal Council Update: Elese Washines, Tribal Council Liaison, was not present and Shannon Torres, Executive Director of Teaching and Learning reported on her behalf. Mrs. Torres reported The Yakama Nation is a Retrocession Tribe which maintains civil jurisdiction over native minors within the boundaries of the reservation. The tribe handles matter of Truancy for Yakama children in Wapato School District. In an effort to meet the holistic needs of those children, they have established an elder’s panel for Truancy. The elder’s panel will meet with children and their families to support attendance utilizing the traditional values and virtues of the Tribe. The elders’ panel is open for additional volunteers at this time and welcomes volunteers from the Wapato Community.
Equitable Continuous Growth Plan Update:  David Blakney, Principal Wapato High School, Superintendent Intern presented the progress and work thus far to update the Equitable Continuous Growth Plan. He explained in detail each section of the plan and highlighted the changes and progress on the draft as presented.  The board reviewed and discussed the draft plan and provided Mr. Blakney with feedback of the draft plan. The Board discussed the duration of the plan and Mr. Blakney informed of the next steps is to take into consideration the Boards feedback from this presentation and continue to work on the draft. Mr. Blakney plans to have the final draft for board review before the start of the next school year.
Financial Report: Sylvia Bazan, Director of Fiscal Services, presented the Cash Flow Analysis Financial Report for April 2024. She explained in detail the expenditures and revenues in each fund category: General, Capital Projects, Debt Service, ASB, Transportation Vehicle, and Private Purpose.
She presented the District overall process of checks and balances and reconciliation to assure the District finances are in alignment with the Yakima County Treasures financial report of the District.  Mrs. Bazan informed this information is due to a recent media article of another district’s financial reports were not in balance and resulted in a negative or zero fund balance that impacted its schools.  That financial activity led that District to eliminate staff positions to remedy the negative financial impact.  Mrs. Bazan explained what OSPI Binding Conditions are and the Board engaged in discussion.
Mrs. Bazan reported the State Auditor has concluded its onsite audit of federal programs, Title 1, ESSER,  Migrant and Special Education. The audit resulted in minor findings that were discussed at the exit meeting with the Auditor. Mrs. Bazan reported the District will set up internal checks and balances to keep better track of internal controls. The audit also found concern in assessment security in the Title I program. Mrs. Bazan informed the District plans to implement guards to comply with OSPI requirements in assessment security. Mrs. Bazan reported the audit will continue in June offsite to review the Districts accountability of Basic Education. The auditor has not disclosed the areas of focus.
5. Consent Action
Consent action approval of items 5.01-5.09 as presented.
5.01   General Fund Warrant No. 164183 through No. 164340 totaling $1,036,906.41
5.02   ASB Fund Warrant No. 11891 through No. 11918 totaling $40,805.31.
5.03   Capital Projects Fund Warrant No. 2232 through No. 2235 totaling $20,111.20.
5.04   Private Purpose Fund Warrant No. 1307 through No. 1309 totaling $8,757.52.
5.06   Personnel Recommendations
5.07   2024-25 Athletic Programs: Wapato Middle School and Wapato High School
5.08   Travel Request-WHS GearUP students to Mastering your College Experience Workshop, CWU June 26-24, 2024 Ellensburg, WA
5.09   Travel Request (Out of State) - WHS Football Program to George Fox University Football Camp June 15-Jun 18, 2024 Newberg, OR
Motion by Javier Vela, second by Sarah Divina.    Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
Action: 5.10 2nd Reading Revised Policy No. 3412 - Automated External Defibrillators (AED)
The Board discussed the revised policy and needs a better understanding of the physician signature requirement stated in the policy. This item was postponed for further review. No action taken.
6. Information/Discussion
Information/Discussion: No new business was introduced.
6.02-6.09: The Board reviewed and discussed the reviewed policies and procedure as presented.
Reviewed Policy No. 2130 Character Development
Reviewed Policy No 2133 Diversity-Multicultural Education
Reviewed Policy and Procedure No. 2153/2153P Non-Curriculum-Related Student Groups
Reviewed Policy No. 2210 Grade Organization
Reviewed Policy No. 2240 Summer School
Reviewed Policy No. 2331 Controversial Issues/Guest Speakers
Reviewed Policy No. 2337 Disability History Month
Reviewed Policy No. 2422 Homework
6.10 Revised Procedure No. 3412P: Automated External Defibrillators (AED)
This item was postponed for further review.
6.11 New Procedure No. 6910P-2 Construction Financing - Bonds: Disclosure Procedure for Publicly Offered Bonds. The Board reviewed the procedure as presented.
7. Closing/Announcements
No Closing Remarks.
8. Executive Session
At 7:25pm, the board took a recess and then reconvened to executive session at 7:30pm to discuss the performance of a public-school employee for 20 minutes, to conclude at 7:50pm.
At 7:50pm, Board President John Francisco extended executive session for 10 minutes.
Executive session concluded at 8pm and the board resumed to the regular meeting.
9. Adjourn
The Board completed its order of business as scheduled on the agenda and with no further business to consider, Board President John Francisco declared the meeting adjourned at 8:00PM.
 