Blaine School District No. 503
  Regular Board Meeting
Tuesday, May 28, 2024
  Minutes
  1. Regular Board Meeting
A. Call to Order
Vice-President Lazarus called the meeting to order, in the district's boardroom, at 7:00 p.m. All directors were in attendance, with President Freeman attending telephonically.
   Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  B. Pledge of Allegiance
Vice-President Lazarus led in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  C. Board Comments on the Agenda
There were no comments on the agenda.
  2. Good News
A. High School Student Report
Blaine High School HOSA club president, Mia Thukaram, shared information about the group's activities during the 2023-2024 school year. Director Galbraith asked about the club's objective, and Mia explained that students in the club gain experience and learn about careers in healthcare.
  3. Public Comment
A. Public Comment
No members of the public addressed the board at this meeting.
  4. Reports
A. School Administrator Reports
  Blaine Primary School: Principal Michelle McKeown reviewed her written report. Additionally, as of the meeting date, there were approximately 90 incoming kindergarten students registered for the 2024-25 school year, including those currently attending the school's Transition to Kindergarten program.

Blaine Elementary School: Principal Jordan Radke reviewed his written report.

Blaine Middle School: Principal Darren Benson reviewed his written report.

Blaine High School: Interim Principal Beth Eide reviewed her written report. She informed the board that the school passed accreditation following her recent presentation in Olympia. She also added comments on the school's upcoming Evening of the Arts event on May 30.
  B. 2023-2024 Blaine HomeConnection Annual Report
The Annual Report of the Blaine HomeConnection program was provided by Dawn Cottnair, Director of Curriculum and Instruction, as an agenda attachment for board review.
  C. Enrollment Update
A report showing enrollment through the month of May was provided by the district's business office and attached to the meeting agenda for board review.
  D. Budget Status and Financial Report
For the board's review, a summary report, provided by the district's business office, was attached to the meeting agenda along with the Financial and Budget Status reports for April.
  E. Superintendent's Report
Dr. Christopher Granger provided an update which included information on the following topics.
Dr. Granger nominated Blaine High School Spanish Teacher Ann Balfour for the WASA Community Leadership Award which was presented to her at a luncheon on May 24. Mrs. Balfour was recognized for establishing the school's Closet Club which will continue to be her legacy after her retirement at the end of this year.
At the April meeting, Director Creydt informed the board that recent legislation requires the board to adopt a policy addressing opioid reversal. Dr. Granger indicated that a policy for this is already in place (Policy 3424).
WSSDA has recommended an update to the Employment and Volunteers policy based on Senate Bill 5123 which took effect on January 1, 2024.
WSSDA has also recommended splitting the current Nutrition and Physical Fitness policy into separate policies for each topic.
Clarification is needed regarding the state's new recess requirement. Due to the lack of clarity about this requirement, the district intends to submit a waiver to OSPI for the 2024-2025 school year.
The Finance Director job posting will be refreshed and re-posted.
The directors were asked to RSVP with Dr. Granger or his assistant for WSSDA's Annual Conference which will take place November 21-23 in Spokane.
  5. Consent Agenda
The board voted to approve all items listed on the Consent Agenda, and Vice-President Lazarus called the 5-0 vote.
  A. Approval of Minutes - April 22, 2024 Regular Board Meeting
The board approved the minutes of the April 22, 2024 Regular Board Meeting.
Motion by Steve Galbraith, second by Ryan Swinburnson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  B. Approval of Minutes - April 29, 2024 Special Board Meeting
The board approved the minutes of the April 29, 2024 Special Board Meeting.
Motion by Steve Galbraith, second by Ryan Swinburnson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  C. Personnel Matters
The board approved the recommended Personnel Matters which included authorization
to issue 2024-2025 contracts to certificated staff.
Motion by Steve Galbraith, second by Ryan Swinburnson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  D. Financial Matters
The board approved Financial Matters as detailed on the Consent Agenda.
Motion by Steve Galbraith, second by Ryan Swinburnson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  E. Contracts & Agreements
The board approved the following contracts:
2024-2025 NWESD - Attendance/Reengagement Contract
2024-2025 NWESD - Student Assistance Professional Contract
2024-2025 NWESD - MTSS Contract
2024-2025 NWESD - Detention Center Interlocal Agreement
2024-2025 NWESD - Whatcom Discovery Interlocal Agreement
Washington Department of Enterprise Services (DES) Contract Usage Agreement
2024-2025 Whatcom County Behavioral Health Interlocal Agreement
2024-2026 Whatcom County Juvenile Court Truancy MOU
Motion by Steve Galbraith, second by Ryan Swinburnson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  F. Surplus Vehicle Declaration
The board approved declaration of Bus #3-00 as surplus equipment.
Motion by Steve Galbraith, second by Ryan Swinburnson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  6. Action Items
A. Recording Method for Board Meetings
Dr. Granger explained the state's new requirement to audio record board meetings, an unfunded mandate, which goes into effect on June 30, 2024. He explained that the updated statute requires retention of the recording for at least one year, although the state's records retention schedule would require that it be kept for six years and then forwarded to the State Archives for permanent retention.

Director Swinburnson asked about the cost for Zoom which was used during the COVID pandemic. Dr. Granger explained that the cost was covered by the state during the pandemic, and the logistics of streaming the meeting video were managed as well as possible by Dr. Granger and his assistant along with their other responsibilities as meeting participants. Returning to that same protocol is not sustainable. He further explained his research into the video meeting option which would involve having it managed by a third party with an approximate cost of $25K-$40K. Dr. Granger reiterated that the state is only requiring audio recording, and Director Swinburnson commented on the value of including a broader audience. Director Creydt agreed and commented on people's disappointment when Zoom meetings were discontinued.

Dr. Granger described an option of using digital recording equipment with a one-time cost of approximately $75. The audio file could then be attached to the meeting agenda in BoardDocs where it could be accessed by the public easily, along with other agenda attachments.

Director Swinburnson and Vice-President Lazarus both agreed that such a high cost would be too much for the board to provide streaming video, and Director Swinburnson expressed a desire for a more accurate price estimate. Director Lazarus indicated that he would be okay with a simple tape deck. President Freeman agreed with selecting the simplest method with the lowest cost. Director Galbraith expressed a priority for making the recording easily accessible.

Vice-President Lazarus made a motion to test the simple, inexpensive audio recording option at the June meeting and discussion continued.
  The board voted to audio record the June 17 meeting with equipment of $100 or less pursuant to RCW 42.30.035, and Vice-President Lazarus called the 4-1 vote.
Motion by Ben Lazarus, second by Steve Galbraith
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-1
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Steve Galbraith
Nay: Ryan Swinburnson
  B. 2024-2025 Board Meeting Calendar
Director Creydt asked about adding a budget work session to the calendar, and discussion followed. Dr. Granger indicated that Amber Porter would be willing to schedule a meeting after the July 10 draft budget deadline. Director Galbraith indicated a preference to call a special meeting for that purpose instead of setting it on the board's annual calendar, and Vice-President Lazarus agreed. Discussion continued regarding date options for a meeting with Amber Porter.
  The board approved the 2024-2025 Board Meeting Calendar.
Motion by Cliff Freeman, second by Ryan Swinburnson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  C. Policy 2255 Alternative Learning Experience Courses: First Reading
The board approved, with no discussion, "First Reading" of a minor update to Policy 2255 Alternative Learning Experience Courses.
Motion by Ryan Swinburnson, second by Ben Lazarus
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  D. Policy 2401 Financial Education Mastery-Based Learning and Credit: First Reading
The board approved, with no discussion, "First Reading" of new Policy 2401 Financial Education Mastery-Based Learning and Credit.
Motion by Steve Galbraith, second by Ryan Swinburnson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  E. 2024-2025 Campus Administrators Contract and 2024-2025 Non-Represented Staff Contract Summary
Dr. Granger explained the district's historical precedent of aligning the lowest paid administrator salary to the highest paid teacher salary. Last year, the administrator/non-represented employee group received only the IPD increase in order to help balance the budget. Dr. Granger believes it is reasonable to provide this group with a 6% increase now. With this increase, the administrator/non-represented employee group would still receive the lowest percentage increase of all employee groups in the district for the past two years combined. He also stated that this group would have been willing to accept a pay freeze if that is what other employee groups had chosen to do.
  Director Galbraith stated that he's given this a lot of thought and concluded he is in favor of Dr. Granger's recommendation. Director Swinburnson also agreed. President Freeman acknowledged that this employee group has been short-changed, however he would prefer to reduce their salary increase to IPD (3.7%) and use the savings to offset cuts that directly impact students. Director Galbraith asked about the admin/teacher salary gap, and Dr. Granger explained that the district's top teacher salary is currently at least $9/day higher than the bottom administrator salary.
  Director Creydt asked about the anticipated budget reduction for 2025-2026, and Dr. Granger explained the possibility of additional reductions in future years if the decreasing enrollment trend continues.
  Vice-President Lazarus stated that, while he respects the hard work done by administrators, he would prefer to explore alternative means of compensation to offset a lower, IPD only, salary increase in order to save a school position. Discussion continued, and Dr. Granger clarified that the savings of approximately $65K may be enough to save a classified position but not a teaching position.
  There was additional discussion regarding alternatives and concerns.
  The board approved the recommended 2024-2025 contract for campus administrators and the 2024-2025 contract summary for all non-represented staff, and Vice-President Lazarus called the 4-1 vote.
Motion by Erika Creydt, second by Steve Galbraith
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-1
Yea: Erika Creydt, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
Nay: Ben Lazarus
  F. 2024-2025 Teaching and Learning Department Administrator Contracts
Dr. Granger explained that the directors' salary level was set at approximately $1,500 above the High School Principal's salary.
  The board approved the 2024-2025 contracts for the Teaching and Learning Department administrators.
Motion by Steve Galbraith, second by Ben Lazarus
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  G. Approval of Superintendent's Contract
Vice-President Lazarus provided a summary of the proposed contract extension, and explained that Dr. Granger has agreed to accept a salary increase of IPD only (3.7%). He further explained that the board’s previous members conducted their evaluation of the superintendent in November based upon their experience working with Dr. Granger. Following that evaluation, the previous board members acknowledged that Dr. Granger had performed to their satisfaction and voted to extend his contract. The contract being considered by the board at this meeting is a result of that board action.
  Director Galbraith disagreed and explained his belief that the board had no statutory authority to extend Dr. Granger’s contract in November of 2023 because that would have been for more than a three year period. According to his reading of the contract language, the board does not have to take any action to extend the contract until December. He further pointed out issues with the contract’s language that he would like to have adjusted and/or reviewed by the district’s attorney. Specifically, in the paragraph addressing the average salaries of benchmark school districts, the words “average” and “mean” seem to be used interchangeably even though they have different meanings. Also, in the “Complaints, Criticisms” paragraph, Director Galbraith would like to remove the requirement for the board to promptly refer suggestions they receive to the superintendent. Director Galbraith indicated that he did not have adequate time to review the proposed contract. He acknowledged that the superintendent’s 2024-2025 salary had to be decided before July, but he believes the board could wait until December on extending the contract's term.
  Director Galbraith made a motion to postpone action on the superintendent’s contract extension until the June meeting, and Director Creydt seconded his motion.
  Director Swinburnson prefaced his comments by stating he was speaking as a board member and not providing the directors with legal advice. He explained his understanding that the previous board members met the December contractual deadline when they took action to extend Dr. Granger’s contract at the November 27, 2023 meeting. He acknowledged that the minutes from that meeting reflect Director Creydt’s recommendation to postpone the contract extension, but the board voted 4-1 in favor of extending the contract. Director Swinburnson believes that the board is already obligated to the contract extension, and he explained his concern about serious repercussions for not following through on that obligation.
  Discussion continued regarding whether extension of the contract exceeded three years. President Freeman shared his understanding that the previous board members approved the extension in principle. He proposed moving ahead with the salary determination and allowing more time for the board to determine if a formal contract extension is desirable.
  There was additional discussion, and Director Swinburnson stated his intention to vote in alignment with the action of the previous board members. Director Creydt expressed a desire to seek an opinion from the district’s attorney, and Director Swinburnson clarified that the board as a whole would be able to seek input from the district’s attorney, but it would not be appropriate for individual directors to seek that input independently.
  Director Swinburnson shared a desire for the contract to include language regarding termination by either party during the term of the agreement. Director Galbraith reiterated his desire for inconsistencies to be corrected in the language, and he would like more time to review the language and have his questions answered. President Freeman noted that the contract has been the same for several years and the only adjustment now is to the salary amount and the end date.
  Discussion continued about postponing the board’s action on the contract and seeking a legal opinion from the district’s attorney. President Freeman asked what it would take to move forward, and the board voted on Director Galbraith’s motion.
  The board voted to postpone action on the contract extension until the June 17, 2024 meeting.
Motion by Steve Galbraith, second by Erika Creydt
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  After the vote, Director Creydt asked about getting answers from the district’s attorney. The directors agreed to send their questions for the attorney to both President Freeman and Dr. Granger by Friday, May 31, in order for the attorney to receive all of the board’s questions at the same time. Directors Swinburnson and Creydt indicated they would be satisfied with seeing the answers in writing.
  7. Board Comments and Future Meeting(s)
A. General Comments
Vice-President Lazarus initiated discussion regarding directors’ ability to access the district’s financial system directly. Director Galbraith does not feel that he has adequate information to vote on financial matters, and the state’s report does not make sense to him. He would like a more clear presentation of the information and mentioned examples he has observed from other districts. Director Galbraith found information on the internet from the district’s software provider which indicated that view-only access could be granted to the board in a manner similar to the access given to an auditor. President Freeman agreed with the desire for more detail, and he asked that Dr. Granger propose something better than the canned reports the board currently receives that would give the directors a “finer cut” for review of financial data. Directors Swinburnson and Creydt shared comments in agreement.
  Director Creydt distributed printed copies of RCW 28A.330.090 “Auditing committee and expenditures”. She indicated that Ferndale and Lynden are doing this and Director Galbraith's suggestion would aid the board in meeting the statute's requirement. President Freeman indicated that he would defer to Dr. Granger to come up with a suggestion to meet the board's desire, and Dr. Granger stated that he is continuing to gather data on this. Discussion continued regarding the board’s desire for direct access to the district’s financial system. Director Creydt voiced support for Director Galbraith being on the board’s auditing committee and participating in a meeting with the financial software vendor. The other directors concurred.
  B. Future Meeting(s) and Agenda Suggestions
The next regular board meeting is on Monday, June 17, 2024 at 7:00 p.m.

Suggestions for agenda items include:
Educator of the Year Presentation
High School Student Report
School Administrator Monthly Reports
Enrollment Update and Financial Report
Superintendent's Report
Policy Updates
  Additional discussion topics were suggested by the board:
President Freeman would like to discuss the district’s new Title IX requirement to allow boys to play girls sports starting next year.
Director Swinburnson asked for the board to discuss the new Parents' Bill of Rights at a future meeting in order to determine consensus as a board.
Vice-President Lazarus described his intent to review past employee investigations in order to address complaints he has received regarding how Dr. Granger has handled those matters.
Director Swinburnson has suggestions for policy changes. This would include a policy adjustment to allow the establishment of committees that would not encumber the superintendent. Dr. Granger explained the benefit of sending policy suggestions to him in advance so that markups could be prepared for board review.
President Freeman would also like to discuss how the superintendent’s evaluation will be conducted moving forward.
  Along with these suggestions, Director Creydt asked about Dr. Granger's meeting with the Zoom vendor on May 29 and discussion followed.
  8. Executive Session
A. Executive Session
At 8:38 p.m., Vice-President Lazarus announced that the board would move into executive session to review the performance of a staff member. No action would follow the executive session, which was expected to end at 8:48 p.m.
  9. Reconvene & Adjourn
A. Reconvene & Adjourn
At 8:49 p.m., the board returned to the meeting room and reconvened in regular session. The meeting was then adjourned by a unanimous vote.
Motion by Ryan Swinburnson, second by Steve Galbraith
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  DATE MINUTES APPROVED: June 17, 2024
   
               _____________________________                            _____________________________
                        BOARD PRESIDENT                                                      SECRETARY/CLERK