Blaine School District No. 503
  Special Board Meeting: Budget Information
Thursday, January 11, 2024
  Minutes
  1. Special Board Meeting
A. Call to Order and Review of Purpose
President Leu called the meeting to order, in the district's boardroom, at 6:19 p.m.
All directors were in attendance.
     Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Ford, Don Leu

President Leu apologized for the delay in his arrival which was due to extenuating circumstances. He reviewed the purpose of this special meeting which was an informational session regarding the district's budget planning process for the 2024-2025 fiscal year. President Leu thanked the other directors for their commitment to learning about this important topic. He further expressed his appreciation to Executive Director of Finance and Operations Amber Porter for her time and effort.
  2. Budget Information
A. 2024-2025 Budget Planning Overview
Amber Porter introduced herself to the new directors. She started with Blaine School District in 2010, and the 2024-2025 budget would have been her 15th budget for the district. Because she is leaving Blaine, the upcoming budget development will be completed by someone else.

Ms. Porter shared a slideshow presentation detailing information about school finance and factors related to Blaine's annual budget development. The directors had an opportunity to ask questions throughout the presentation. Ms. Porter also distributed hard copies of the district's full F-195 budget document for the 2023-2024 fiscal year. She explained that a fully-executed original, signed by OSPI and NWESD, is maintained in the business office. Ms. Porter also showed the directors how to find the document on OSPI's website.

The district's five budgetary funds were reviewed and explained. There was discussion regarding the location and amount of funds earmarked for the Birch Bay school property, as well as other Capital Projects expenditures.

Ms. Porter reminded the board that the district cannot collect the full enrichment levy amount approved by voters in 2020 because of McCleary restrictions that adversely impacted only a few districts in the state, including Blaine. She further explained how the district has planned to maintain a consistent tax rate for property owners with the levy and bond being presented to voters in the February 13, 2024 special election. There was discussion regarding the anticipated interest rate for the proposed capital bond, as well as how the Transportation Fund is used.

Information was provided about school finance trainings offered by WSSDA both online and in person at the annual conference.

Ms. Porter explained how the district's Human Resources department creates the personnel budget, and she commented on various factors that impact rates of pay.
  Director Creydt referenced a page on the F-195 document and asked why Federal & Special Programs expenses were millions more in 2021 than in 2023. Ms. Porter explained how the district used ESSER Funds to cover qualified, regular expenses, and she provided handouts showing the breakdown of how this stimulus funding was used. Discussion continued regarding this use of stimulus funds which allowed the district to build up the General Fund balance in an effort to prepare for anticipated budget shortfalls after the pandemic. Ms. Porter also distributed a copy of the fund balance graph for 2021-2022 which demonstrated visually how stimulus funding revenue impacted the General Fund balance. She further explained how the district's claims for ESSER Funds were strictly audited to ensure compliance with the federal requirements. Increased staffing expenses were also noted and discussed, as well as GASB accounting requirements for leases.

The slideshow presentation resumed, and Ms. Porter continued to explain how the Human Resources department creates the personnel budget without knowing many factors, particularly when a collective bargaining agreement has not yet been finalized. Budgets for each department and program are developed by the department and program managers. Revenue estimates are not available until late in the planning process, typically in June, when the state makes its revenue tool available. Historically, enrollment has been projected by rolling up cohorts, but that method has failed in the past couple of years. Incoming kindergarten cohorts have been smaller than outgoing graduating classes, so overall enrollment is trending steadily downward. Additionally, most campus programs are unable to identify needs this early for the coming year. Even with so many unknowns, the district is still required to provide a draft budget by July 10, with adoption no later than August 31 (for a second class district).

Ms. Porter explained the board's participation in the budget planning process. More valuable discussion is possible later in the process when more information is available. Ms. Porter explained that the board is not responsible for setting individual line amounts, which are determined by department and program managers. In years when there are reductions, the board is asked for additional attention to the process. Programs are reduced via resolution by the board. When there is not certainty that the next year's revenues will cover expenditures, the board, typically in March, will direct the superintendent to develop a reduced education plan which would then be considered by the board at the regular meeting in April. A reduced education plan adopted by the board may or may not be fully carried out, depending on whether adequate revenue becomes available. Ms. Porter explained that having a reduced education program plan is a critical part of ensuring that the district remains solvent.

Ms. Porter described alternative methods for budget development used by some larger districts. While those methods may allow for an earlier budget adoption, the many contingencies are labor intensive which prohibit this from being an option for Blaine School District without adding staff to the business office. Because of the controversy and dissent that has occurred in Blaine this past year, the board should be clear early in the process if a change needs to be made to the district's budget development process. Ms. Porter addressed the possibility that board members may experience feelings of discomfort as this process unfolds, and she encouraged them to proceed in the same manner as prior years so that people know what to expect. Ms. Porter further encouraged the board to discuss ideas with the district's leadership to determine if factors need to be considered before making changes to practice. She described how it is difficult for a staff member to hear conflicting messages from different board members. To ensure the board's message is clear, communication should be filtered through the appropriate channels, starting with the superintendent. Ms. Porter also explained why it is so important for questions to be asked outside of the open public meeting, particularly when the question casts doubt on a person's integrity. The side of the brain that is active in a public setting is different, and a more thoughtful response can be provided when not under pressure. It was clarified that board members are allowed to meet with the superintendent. It is good practice to bring up issues and concerns at a time when thoughtful consideration can be given.

The slideshow presentation resumed, and Ms. Porter explained the state's requirement for adoption of a four-year budget projection. Blaine's practice has been to follow the intent of the law with this projection which results in a negative balance when no adjustments are made in future years. Despite this projection, an actual budget cannot have a negative balance, which is why the four-year projections don't actually come to fruition. The projection is simply a tool used to identify the need for adjustments to future budgets. The 2023-2024 projection is already obsolete due to the finalization of staffing contracts as well as enrollment. Director Creydt asked about updating the projection mid-year and discussion followed. Ms. Porter clarified that she does not have concerns about the current year's budget, and additional reporting tasks like this are not feasible due to this year's 30% reduction of staffing in the business office. There was further discussion regarding how the board is advised of budget issues regularly at each monthly meeting, about forecasting throughout the year, and about specific cuts made to business office staffing.

The slideshow presentation continued with information about the 2024 legislative session. Ms. Porter asked Director Creydt, the board's Legislative Representative, about any updates from Olympia. Director Creydt stated that there had been nothing concrete. President Leu then shared information he learned earlier in the day about state funding.

Ms. Porter continued to explain revenue impacts from McCleary, including how the state calculates funding for school personnel, as well as Blaine's reduced ability to collect local levy funds. Director Lazarus observed that the increase in the district's staffing expense went up by a significantly larger percentage than the increase in student funding revenue. Discussion continued regarding the state's consideration of Blaine's overall staff experience which resulted in additional lost funding which cannot be reconsidered for another four years, despite the change in overall staff experience after less-experienced staff were lost in reductions. Ms. Porter stated the importance of maintaining local levy revenue, without which the district would be in dire straits. Discussion continued regarding other districts in binding conditions and what that would look like for Blaine.

Additional revenue topics were discussed, including the Transition to Kindergarten program, the inability to reduce staffing proportionate to lost enrollment, and the detailed process for securing Special Programs funding.

Ms. Porter reviewed the district's fund balance and explained that there is no additional "savings account" with district funds.

Recommendations were provided by Ms. Porter for planning the 2024-2025 budget. She reminded the board of the policy requirement to end the year with a fund balance equal to at least 6% of the district's full year of expenditures (minus the $1.5M of GASB accounting).

Staffing costs were discussed, and Director Lazarus asked how much salaries had increased with the settled contracts. Certificated salaries increased 6% this year and another 6% next year. Reductions in 2023-2024 scaled instructional staff back to the maximum class size which doesn't leave room for much more reduction to classroom staffing in 2024-2025.

Other operational factors and variables were also reviewed. Based upon known factors for 2024-2025, the district currently estimates that reduction of $2.7M will be needed. This is, of course, assuming that the EP&O levy passes. The local levy is a critical revenue stream. If that ballot measure fails, Ms. Porter recommends that the district turn around and ask voters again in the next special election to avoid any disruption in revenue. Discussion continued, and Ms. Porter explained that even though the local levy funds make up 17% of the total revenue, loss of that funding could not be spread out evenly because not all programs can be reduced. The programs that can be reduced would see 24% cuts if the EP&O levy fails.

Director Creydt asked how many kids are tested for IEPs, and discussion followed regarding the increase in students who are tested for IEPs.

The process for developing a reduced education plan was reviewed. Ms. Porter explained that state law and collective bargaining agreements with the labor unions dictate the timeline for notifying staff of potential impact on their employment. There was discussion regarding the number of staff who may be impacted by a reduction of $2.7M. Ms. Porter explained the requirement to notify every staff member who may be impacted and how that notification requirement results in a high level of uncertainty. When a position is cut, the person in that position is notified plus every person with lower seniority in that staffing cohort is also notified since there is also a possibility of impact on their position.
  There was discussion regarding the district's efforts to address reductions to school library staffing and why volunteers cannot be used to replace contracted employees. 

A breakdown of personnel expenses was provided and discussion continued.

Ms. Porter encouraged the directors to communicate their questions and/or concerns to Dr. Granger as the district moves forward in the process of considering reductions and budget planning. Dr. Granger affirmed his desire for directors to come visit with him to review the reductions being considered, with the understanding that this process is a moving target. Ms. Porter expressed confidence that the 2024-2025 budget is doable so long as the EP&O levy passes. In future years, she believes that serious consideration will need to be given to what is scalable and sustainable in alignment with rapidly elevating costs.

Director Creydt commented on the importance of managing expectations of administrator performance in addition to teacher performance. 

Ms. Porter closed her presentation by encouraging the board to proceed with the proposed reductions and to support passing of the EP&O levy.

Director Ford asked how information could be obtained by the board about reductions being considered, and Dr. Granger encouraged all of the directors to have conversations with him on a regular basis. He added that the preliminary list of reductions would be shared with the board in March, and formal action would be taken by the board at the open public meeting in April.

Director Freeman shared information he had learned about the higher cost of switching from natural gas to electric heating units.
  3. Adjourn
A. Adjourn
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 8:55 p.m. by a consensus of the directors.

DATE MINUTES APPROVED: January 22, 2024
                             ________________________________                            ________________________________
                                       BOARD PRESIDENT                                                           SECRETARY/CLERK