Blaine School District No. 503
  Special Board Meeting
Tuesday, July 23, 2024
  Minutes
  1. Special Board Meeting
A. Call to Order
Vice-President Lazarus called the meeting to order, in the district's boardroom, at 6:00 p.m. All directors were in attendance, with President Freeman attending telephonically.
   Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
  2. 2024-2025 Draft Budget
A. Review of 2024-2025 Draft Budget
Blaine School District's Financial Consultant, Amber Porter, provided an overview of the proposed draft budget for the 2024-2025 fiscal year, including preliminary revenue, expenditure, and enrollment projections. Ms. Porter also addressed directors' specific questions and topics of concern that were provided in advance of the meeting.

Ms. Porter demonstrated how to find the district’s financial statements on OSPI’s website and explained that the preliminary draft budget can typically undergo additional changes up to the time of adoption in August. The annual deadline for adoption is August 31. Ms. Porter explained that the district works hand-in-hand with NWESD in the budget development process, and NWESD provides a review of the F-195 before its final submission. She explained the board’s role to approve appropriations for each fund, adding that the district cannot spend a penny more than that appropriation without additional board approval.
  Director Lazarus asked for clarification about the F-195 and F-196 reports. Ms. Porter explained both reports are built by the state and populated with local data. Budgeted expenses are loaded into the F-195 report at the beginning of each fiscal year. Actual expenses are loaded into the F-196 report at the end of the year which then becomes the district's financial statement for that fiscal year. The F-196 is audited by the state for accountability which provides assurance to entities issuing bonds. The state also uses that report to inform its own statewide reporting. It was clarified that the F-196, with the year’s actual expenses, is generated after the fiscal year is closed with an annual deadline of October 25. Director Galbraith asked if more real time reporting is available during the year. Ms. Porter explained that the F-196 cannot be used in that way, and the monthly financial reports attached to the board’s meeting agenda provide that information and verify that none of the funds are exceeding appropriation.
  Ms. Porter reviewed each of the district’s funds and the recommended appropriations for board consideration at the August meeting. She explained that the General Fund includes individual funds, like Food Service, which may be separated out in other states.
  Explanation was provided regarding the schools’ ASB Fund. The ASB budget is determined by students at the secondary level and by principals at the K-5 level, and the schools oversee and manage the ASB fund. The 4-year projection for this fund aims at maintaining a steady ending fund balance year-to-year.
  Although it has been the district's historical practice to continually update its bus fleet, there has recently been a lag in that process due to various issues including supply chain challenges. Director Lazarus asked about the mandate to switch to all electric buses, and Ms. Porter explained that will be an issue in the future but has not been finalized at this time. It will be critical for the state to provide improved infrastructure to support that as well as a funding source to replace gasoline buses. Ms. Porter explained that bus purchases are timed to ensure availability of funds. The 4-year forecast for this fund assumes all available resources will be spent. There is no reason to hold back Transportation Fund expenditures. The amount budgeted is intended to make it possible for the Transportation Department to make bus purchases as needed.
  The Debt Service Fund is where capital bond tax revenue is deposited. Director Creydt asked about the projected ending fund balance and how much is allocated for the purchase of property in Birch Bay. Ms. Porter explained that the allocation for that property purchase would be located in the Capital Projects Fund, not in Debt Service, and the allocation for Birch Bay property is $1M. Ms. Porter reviewed the expenses paid from this fund which include costs for setting up the bond. Director Galbraith asked what informs the beginning and ending balances, and Ms. Porter described how those are determined.
  Ms. Porter reviewed the Capital Projects Fund. She explained that repairs are most often paid from the General Fund, however there are specific repairs that the state allows the district to pay from Capital Projects. Ms. Porter reiterated that the Birch Bay property funds exist in Capital Projects. The proposed budget allows for this fund to be spent to zero because the Capital Projects Levy is expiring and there is currently no additional fund revenue. Ms. Porter explained why it is important to have budget authority to allow for a large project which is why the budgeted expenditures bring this account to zero. Director Lazarus asked about the relationship between the Capital Projects and Debt Service funds, and Ms. Porter described how each is used. When a bond initiative passes, the resulting debt revenue is deposited into the Capital Projects Fund. With no approved bond in the future, it has not been included in the budgeted revenue. She assured the board that the district intends to delay certain improvements included in the proposed budget until the Birch Bay property is secured.
  The district is on track to end the current fiscal year at the budgeted 6% General Fund balance. Ms. Porter explained other non-tax revenue which includes facility use fees, meal payments, etc. She informed the board how the district has remained about a year ahead in its interest payments on debt. Since that interest is already covered, additional transfers to the Debt Service Fund are not anticipated in the coming year.
  Director Galbraith asked why the ending fund balance is closer to 7% and why additional funds are not budgeted to remediate staffing reductions. Ms. Porter explained that the additional funds could be used in that way, however she recommends not budgeting that closely to provide the district with capacity to adjust for unforeseen expenditures during the year. Those could include unforeseen staffing expenses, as well as large repairs, etc. Ms. Porter indicated her intent to address this matter in more detail later in her presentation.

The mandatory MSOC disclosure was included in the presentation. Ms. Porter informed the board that the district will spend more than the state’s allocated MSOC funds on qualifying expenditures. She added information regarding the state’s nominal increase in the MSOC funds allocation as a result of ESHB 2494.
  Ms. Porter explained the assumptions made in budget forecasting, adding that numbers generated by those assumptions are not likely to become reality. Ms. Porter reminded the board of the purpose of the forecast, adding that the 4-year forecast does not need to balance, but actual future budgets do have to balance. In past years, Blaine has shown a projection with negative balances to demonstrate what would happen if no changes were made. Ms. Porter referenced how other districts have experienced real financial shortfalls and the purpose of the budget forecasting requirement is to predict when that could happen so that it can be avoided.
  Instead of showing a negative balance in future years, a new revenue line has been added and highlighted on the 4-year forecast showing how much additional revenue would be needed to maintain existing programming. Ms. Porter clarified that the revenue line highlighted in blue represents funding that is not part of the district’s anticipated revenue. The forecast’s salary/benefit assumption was based upon state IPD. Director Galbraith asked why enrollment is maintained steady in the forecast when reduction is anticipated, and Ms. Porter explained that enrollment reduction would have to correspond with additional staffing reductions. Director Lazarus shared concerns about the projection for expenditures to continue at $900K more than revenue year over year. Ms. Porter also provided a forecast without the additional revenue line, which showed the fund balance drawn down to negative. She further explained that past forecasts showed the fund balance going to negative sooner, which indicates that Blaine School District is getting closer to being balanced.

Ms. Porter reviewed variables that have occurred in past years, mentioning that enrollment could end up being completely different. In typical years, the district has functioned conservatively, and the administration has been careful not to over-spend which frequently results in savings. Additional variables and assumptions were reviewed. Ms. Porter explained how staffing costs can compound into larger costs in future years due to step increases, and she described the district’s loss of staff mix enhancement in recent regionalization by state.
  Historical F-195 and F-196 data was reviewed, beginning with actuals for 2022-23. Ms. Porter explained how the district was able to maintain programming levels longer by spending down the large 2022-2023 beginning fund balance.

Enrollment trends were reviewed showing a steady decline since the 2019-2020 school year. TTK was not included to allow comparison to prior years before the program started. Enrollment assumptions were also reviewed, and Ms. Porter reiterated that enrollment is the biggest driver of revenue for the district. She explained the impact of a 2000-student district declining and the corresponding reduction in staff. Ms. Porter explained the rationale for basing the 2024-2025 budgeted enrollment on FTE in February 2024 instead of on the ending FTE count. A conservative kindergarten estimate was used, and if grade-level enrollment is higher the district may need to hire additional teachers. Birth rates have trended down in recent years, which is likely to continue impacting the district’s kindergarten enrollment.

Ms. Porter compared the practice in other states of maintaining a much higher ending fund balance than in Washington state. Bond investors often point out this difference, and it is important for the district to keep revenue and expenditures closely aligned to avoid significant impact on the fund balance.

Bonds are the best resource for funding large capital projects. There are alternative resources from the state but Blaine does not qualify for significant funding from these resources. When schools qualify, LAP funds can be used but that funding is lost whenever the Free & Reduced Lunch rate falls below 50% for a school. Any commitments related to that funding should be made with the understanding that the funds may not continue.

Ms. Porter explained the revenue/expense offset associated with lease and software accounting rules. She then addressed questions that the directors had provided in advance.

Windfalls have happened in the past and Ms. Porter gave the examples of additional LAP funding received late in the 2018-2019 school year, as well as ESSER funding received during the pandemic. She explained how the ESSER funds were strategically used by the district to preserve programing when regular revenue started to decline. She further explained how special staffing positions, like bus monitors, are typically funded.

The F-198 Budget Status Report was reviewed to show the pacing of revenues and expenses. Ms. Porter explained the relationship between encumbrances and expenditures as shown on the report. Encumbrances include standing purchase orders for the full year's expenses, as well as outstanding staffing costs. She also added an explanation regarding GASB encumbrances.

Director Creydt asked for specific names of the financial reports in Qmlativ. Ms. Porter explained that Qmlativ contains hundreds of reports with user-defined names, and she shared an example of an expenditure summary report. She explained that the summary reports show total amounts and not individual amounts. Director Galbraith asked how to access a report to show both revenue and expenditures, and Dr. Granger explained that such a report could be run by selecting both expenditures and revenue in the report parameters. Discussion continued about the various categories for staffing expenses.

Ms. Porter explained how budget allocations are informed by the accounting manual and other factors, and how a cross-walking process is used.

Director Galbraith asked for an explanation of "compensatory education". Ms. Porter explained the Title I remedial program intended to help students with identified needs. She gave the example of LAP as the state’s version of this program. Discussion continued regarding how those funds can be used.

Director Galbraith asked for an explanation of "other instructional programs". Ms. Porter shared examples, including GEAR UP etc., and she described the additional capacity for unknowns that is built into this part of the budget.

Director Galbraith asked for an explanation of "support services", and Ms. Porter explained that these include things like food service, bus transportation, human resources, the business office, the superintendent and school board, utilities, insurance, facility and grounds maintenance, and technology.

Director Lazarus asked for a general description of the expenses included in the large board and superintendent budget allocations. Ms. Porter provided examples of board expenses, including those related to meetings, conferences, training, the BoardDocs platform, WSSDA membership which is required by state law, attorney fees, consultation fees, audit costs, and election costs. Ms. Porter also shared examples of superintendent expenses. A large portion is for staff salaries, which included the salary for one Teaching and Learning director in 2023-2024. Additional superintendent expenses include professional organization memberships, consulting fees, conference and travel costs, trainings and professional development requirements, as well as general office supplies, equipment, and furnishings for the administration building.

Director Lazarus asked if the K-3 class size funding issue had been resolved, and Dr. Granger confirmed that the funds will be received. Ms. Porter further explained how inaccurate coding for certain staff had caused the issue which is now resolved. There was discussion regarding class size calculation which considers all students and all teachers and is driven down by the count at Point Roberts Primary School.

Director Creydt asked for clarification regarding the staff reduction numbers from 2023-2024 to 2024-2025, and Ms. Porter explained confusion related to an error in the personnel database which showed an incorrect number for 2023-2024.

Director Galbraith asked for explanation of several other account categories, and discussion followed. He also asked about online FTE enrollment, which Ms. Porter affirmed was included in the budgeted calculation. Director Galbraith affirmed his understanding of Ms. Porter's explanations. He thanked her for answering all of his questions and acknowledged that her answers made fiscal sense.
  At an unknown time during the discussion, President Freeman's call was dropped and he effectively left the meeting.
  3. Adjourn
A. Adjourn
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 7:53 p.m. by a formal motion.
  Motion by Steve Galbraith, second by Ryan Swinburnson
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0, 1 note present
Yea: Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Ryan Swinburnson, Steve Galbraith
Not Present at Vote: Cliff Freeman
  DATE MINUTES APPROVED: August 26, 2024
   
               _____________________________                            _____________________________
                        BOARD PRESIDENT                                                      SECRETARY/CLERK

   