Blaine School District No. 503
  Special Board Meeting
Friday, March 15, 2024
  Minutes
  1. Special Board Meeting
A. Call to Order
President Freeman called the meeting to order, in the district boardroom, at 5:00 p.m.
All directors were in attendance.
     Erika Creydt, Ben Lazarus, Cliff Freeman

President Freeman reviewed the meeting's agenda, noting that Susan Lottimer had withdrawn her application and Paul Berg would be interviewed by telephone.

President Freeman made a motion to add a second executive session at the end of the published agenda. Director Lazarus seconded the motion, and all voted in favor. The 3-0 vote was audible in the room.
  2. Director Candidate Interviews
A. Director Candidate Interviews
The directors interviewed a total of six candidates, and each candidate was given the opportunity to be interviewed individually.
  Two candidates were interviewed for the vacant board position representing Director District 4.
Derrick Bovenkamp was interviewed from approximately 5:02-5:23 p.m. Mr. Bovenkamp is an IT professional and has a student in Blaine schools. He ran for the District 4 position in 2023 because of concerns about the politicization of school boards in hopes of bringing level-headed thinking to the role. He is applying for the position again with a desire to make a difference by volunteering his time. Mr. Bovenkamp has prior experience serving on governing boards for both the Centricity Healthcare Users Group and for the Mount Baker Council BSA.
Ryan Swinburnson was interviewed from approximately 5:24-5:50 p.m. Mr. Swinburnson moved to Blaine in 1979 and attended 1st through 12th grade in Blaine schools. As a lawyer in both Oregon and Washington, he has had significant experience advising the governing boards of various public and private entities. Mr. Swinburnson's own child and soon-to-be step-children are all Blaine students. He is applying for a position on the board because of his vested interest in the district's success and believes he would be an asset.

The board recessed for a short break starting at 5:50 p.m. At 5:58 p.m., the board meeting resumed.
  Four candidates were interviewed for the vacant board position representing Director District 5.
Paul Berg was unable to attend in person and was interviewed telephonically from approximately 6:00-6:26 p.m. Mr. Berg was a High School Art Teacher in Bellingham Public Schools for 40 years. In retirement, he has been an active volunteer in the Blaine community, and he has experience advocating for schools at the state level. Mr. Berg also applied for the Director District 5 vacancy in 2022.
Steve Galbraith was interviewed from approximately 6:26-6:47 p.m. Mr. Galbraith grew up in Blaine and attended Blaine schools. He returned to Blaine after college, raised his own family here, and now has grandchildren who attend Blaine schools. Two years ago, he retired after more than four decades in the pharmacy profession. Mr. Galbraith has served on the local Planning Commission and the City Council, and he is now serving as the council president at Grace Lutheran Church. Mr. Galbraith has a passion for Blaine schools, for educators, and for students. He desires to engage the community and parents in dialogue. During Mr. Galbraith's interview, he asked the directors about the positive experiences that help them feel willing to continue their service on the board, and each director provided a response.
Charles Gibson was interviewed from approximately 6:48-7:12 p.m. Mr. Gibson moved to Blaine 32 years ago. He is grateful for the experiences his children and grandchildren have had as students in Blaine schools. Mr. Gibson is a retired pastor with a long history of service to the Blaine community. Mr. Gibson previously served on the school board from 2006-2023, and is now working with a group of community leaders to establish a foundation for the benefit of Blaine schools. He expressed appreciation for the strong pool of candidates interested in serving on the board, and he spoke passionately regarding his desire for the board to work cohesively as a unified group.
  All five candidates were asked the following questions:
Please talk about your interest in serving as a School Board member.
What would you consider to be the overall, greatest strengths of the Blaine School District?
What challenges and opportunities do you see as most prevalent in the work of educating students?
What do you see as your role as a board member and the role of the board as a whole?
What experiences, personal or professional, do you believe will most positively impact your role as a School Board member?
We have a number of facilities under consideration that are in need of modernization or replacement. What information do you believe will be of greatest value to the voters in considering a bond initiative in the future?
The K-12, public education funding challenge continues to generate much air time in the State of Washington. What do you believe it will take to accomplish/reach the full funding goal?
The board and the superintendent annually work to align their goals and action plans with those in place at the building and program levels. How can the board best assure that limited resources remain focused on the improvement of learning opportunities for all students?
What concerns do you have specific to service as a School Board member?
Do you have any prior experiences that may shed negative light on your service as a School Board member in the Blaine School District?
What strategies might you suggest for involving more parents and community members in their schools?
What questions might you have for current members of the board?
  3. Executive Session #1
A. Executive Session #1
At 7:12 p.m., President Freeman announced that the board would move into executive session for the purpose of discussing the appointment of candidates to the vacant board positions representing Director District 4 and Director District 5. The executive session would last for approximately ten (10) minutes, or until 7:22 p.m. If there is consensus, the board may take action to appoint new directors after returning to the open public meeting.
  4. Reconvene and Action
At 7:22 p.m., the executive session ended and the regular session resumed.
  A. Appointment of Director - District 4
Director Lazarus made a motion to appoint Ryan Swinburnson to the board position representing Director District 4 until the next general local election in 2025. The motion was seconded by Director Creydt. There was no further discussion.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 3-0
Roll Call Vote: Directors Lazarus, Creydt, and Freeman voted in favor of this appointment.
  B. Appointment of Director - District 5
Director Creydt made a motion to appoint Steve Galbraith to the board position representing Director District 5 until the next general local election in 2025. There was no further discussion.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 3-0
Roll Call Vote: Directors Lazarus, Creydt, and Freeman voted in favor of this appointment.
  5. Executive Session #2
A. Executive Session #2
At 7:23 p.m., President Freeman announced that the board will move into executive session for the purpose of evaluating a complaint or charges brought against a director or staff member. The executive session is anticipated to last five minutes, or until approximately 7:28 p.m. Any extension of time will be announced verbally in the boardroom, and no final action will be taken by the board following this executive session.
  6. Reconvene and Adjourn
A. Reconvene and Adjourn
The board returned to the meeting room at 7:30 p.m. and the meeting reconvened in regular session. There being no further business, the meeting was then adjourned by consensus of the board.
  DATE MINUTES APPROVED: March 25, 2024
   
               _____________________________                            _____________________________
                        BOARD PRESIDENT                                                      SECRETARY/CLERK