Regular Board Meeting at 5:30 PM (Wednesday, November 13, 2024)
PUBLIC MEETING OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Meeting Location: District Office Boardroom, 212 West 3rd Street, Wapato, WA 98951
1. Opening Item
Call to Order: Board President, John Francisco called the meeting to order at 5:30pm.
Pledge of Allegiance
Verification of Quorum: Members present: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lori Garcia. Not present: Javier Vela
and Lorenzo Alvarado
Agenda: Motion by Sarah Divina, second by Lori Garcia to amend the agenda to change the order of the Reports
to: 3.01 Wapato Middle School Junior League of Yakima Young Girls' Summit and 3.02 Superintendent's Report
and approve as amended.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lori Garcia
Minutes: Approval of the October 28, 2024 Regular Meeting minutes as presented.
Motion by Sarah Divina, second by Lori Garcia. Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lori Garcia
2. Public Comments
No Public Comments
3. Reports
Superintendent's Report: Kelly Garza, Superintendent, reported:
• WHS Fall sports have concluded. Cross Country had 2 students qualify for State Competition; Yandel
Rodriguez and Enrique Perez. Winter sports are Basketball and Wrestling and the Winter season will begin
on Monday.
• The District recognized Veterans Day with many activities and assembles throughout the District last week.
Mr. Garza took a moment to thank the current staff veterans for their service. He appreciated Lori Garcia
and Sarah Divina for their attendance at school veteran assemblies.
• At the next regular board meeting, he will be celebrating the Superintendent Awards. He will be recognizing
outstanding students, staff, families and community members. The meeting will be held at Simcoe
Elementary.
• Mike Balmelli, Public Relations, presented an update of the recent State election and election outcomes. He
reported the State legislative session begins in January and have yet to set legislative priorities for
education. Mr. Balmelli informed the District Focus on Education Day is scheduled for December 5 at the
District office.
Wapato Middle School Junior League of Yakima Young Girls' Summit: Erin Gonzalez, Principal, Michelle Howell,
Dean of Students were joined by students Roxanna Silva and Sofia Encarnacion. They attended the annual Junior
League Summit held at ESD105 and reported of their experience at the event. Michelle Howell presented details
of the event, speakers, focus, projects and activities and the students expressed their experience of the day.
Wapato Middle School had 19 students attend the leadership summit.
Construction Update: Kevin Hill, Executive Director, reported the District was awarded the grant from the
Department of Commerce for the HS well project and will move forward with bids. He will maintain the Board
updated as this project moves along. The receipt of the grant will allow the District to move forward with other
projects that have been on hold pending a solution of the well.
Mr. Hill reported he will be attending a PACE Design Team meeting with ALSC in Spokane next week. The District
is ready to start to discuss the design team process for the elementary. The new school will tentatively be
approximately 86000 sq. ft and that design team process will begin in January. He is scheduled to meet with
OSPI and Mark Brown, OSPI to discuss funding for the new elementary project.
He presented more information about the PACE Construction Contract this is up for action this evening. He
reported the contract has been reviewed by legal counsel and both parties are in agreement. Jeff Jorgenson was
present for the discussion.

2024-25 Camas Elementary School Improvement Plan: Kevin Hill, Principal presented 2024-25 the Camas School
Improvement Plan. The report included student academic achievement goals, assessment data, and progress.
4. Consent Action
Consent Action approval of items 4.01-4.06 as presented:
4.01 General Fund Warrant No. 165365 through No. 165379 totaling $110,405.03.
4.02 ASB Fund Warrant No. 11982 in the amount of $2,085.47.
4.03 Personnel Recommendations
4.04 PACE Construction Project Design Team Contract/Agreement
4.05 2024-25 Camas Elementary School Improvement Plan
4.06 2nd Reading Revised Policy No 2421 Promotion/Retention
Motion by Sarah Divina, second by Lori Garcia. Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lori Garcia
5. Information/Discussion
Information/Discussion: John Francisco discussed the process for 1st and 2nd readings of policy changes. The
Board engaged in discussion regarding essential, discretionary, and priority policy updates.
Mr. Francisco asked about what the District is doing about at-risk students that may be taken out of schools as
the new US President plans of mass deportation may impact Wapato families and students. The Board and
Cabinet engaged in discussion.
Enrollment Report November 2024: The Board reviewed the report as presented.
1st Reading Revised Policy 5011 Sexual Harassment of District Staff Prohibited: The Board reviewed the
revised policy and it will move onto second reading and action at the next regular meeting.
The Board reviewed the reviewed policies and procedure and retired policy as presented:
Reviewed Policy No 2023 Lesson Plans
Reviewed Policy No 3211 Gender-Inclusive Schools
Reviewed Policy and Procedure 3235/P Protection of Student Personal Information
Reviewed Procedure 2421P Promotion/Retention
6. Closing/Announcements
No closing remarks.
7. EXECUTIVE SESSION
At 6:56pm, Board President, John Francisco called for a short recess and then moved to reconvene at 7:00pm to
executive session to consider the selection of real estate by purchase when public knowledge regarding such
consideration would cause a likelihood of increased price and to discuss the performance of a public-school
employee, for 15 minutes to conclude at 7:15pm.
At 7:15pm, Board President Francisco extended executive session for 2 minutes.
Executive session concluded at 7:17pm.
8. Adjourn
The Board completed its order of business as scheduled on the agenda and with no further business to consider,
Board President John Francisco declared the meeting adjourned at 7:17pm.

Recording Secretary

Approved on:

President of the Board

