Regular Board Meeting at 5:30 PM (Monday, June 10, 2024)
PUBLIC MEETING OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Meeting Location: Simcoe Elementary 1307 S. Camas Ave, Wapato, WA 98951
1. Opening Item
Call to Order: Board President John Francisco called the meeting to order at 5:30pm.
Verification of Quorum: All members present: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
Pledge of Allegiance
Agenda: Approval of the agenda as presented.
Motion by Lorenzo Alvarado, second by Sarah Divina.      Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
Minutes: Approval of the May 29, 2024 Regular Meeting minutes as presented.
Motion by Lorenzo Alvarado, second by Sarah Divina.      Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
2. Public Comments
No Public Comments
3. SUPERINTENDENT RECOGNITIONS
2024 Seal of Biliteracy Recipients: The following students were recognized and received an award for their achievement of the Seal of Biliteracy. These students have demonstrated master proficiency in English and at least one other language.
  Alexis Paredes Spanish
Alicia Padilla Spanish
Anabela E. Benitez Spanish
Angel Serrato-Padilla Spanish
Brian Strong, Jr. Ichishkiin
Carlos Baldovinos Spanish
Chloe X. Moya Spanish
Cyndi M. Costello Spanish
Daniel Barajas Spanish
Emmanuel Luna Spanish
Favian Gil Spanish
Faviola De Paz Spanish
Guadalupe Torres-Ocampo Spanish
Jazmin F. Lopez Spanish
Jazmin Franco Ibarra Spanish
Jazmin Martinez Spanish
Jehysa Perez Spanish
Jesus Carmona Ichishkiin
Jordan L. Olney Spanish
Jovannie Y. Velasquez Spanish
Kaeden Lamebull Ichishkiin
Kellie Martin Ilocano/Tagalog
Lecxy Tellez Spanish
Maria R. Alzate Spanish
Michael Moody Ichishkiin
Monserat Suarez Spanish
Patricia Cardenas Correa Spanish
Roselyn Rojas Spanish
Rubi Fermin Spanish
Sebastian Mendoza Spanish
Sheyla Arroyo Spanish
Tristan Bill Ichishkiin
Yerisbeth Manon Perez Spanish
  Staff: Marilyn Bergevin, Special Programs Director received a Superintendent Award for her work in the Dual Language Program.  Mrs. Bergevin had Armando Campos 1st grader read out loud a short story to the Board in Spanish. She applauded Armando for learning to read in Spanish. He started the school year knowing only English.
4. Reports
Superintendent's Report: Kelly Garza, Superintendent, reported:
Wapato School District celebrated its graduation ceremonies last week. The Class of 2024 had 204 graduates from Wapato High School, 26 grads at PACE High School and 12 students from the Wapato Online Academy. Mr. Garza noted this year’s graduation class has been one highest number of graduates in a very long time.
He attended many end of year activities and celebrations throughout the District.
Last Tuesday, he joined David Blakey, WHS Principal and Shannon Torres, Executive Director at Yakama Tribal Council to celebrate and recognize the 5 WHS native American students that achieved the Seal of Biliteracy in the Ichiskiin language.
Tomorrow is the last day of school. Students have successfully attended 180 days of school.
Construction Update: Kevin Hill, Executive Director, reported Request for Qualifications notice was sent out last Thursday and has received 15 responses. The District is accepting RFQ’s through end of month and then will move to send out notice for proposals . He commented he is optimistic about the outlook as it appears it will be healthy competition that will help maintain reasonable costs.
Mr. Hill r3eported having a zoom meeting with the Yakama Nation to discuss the HS well situation. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss what is allowable by the tribe to dig in regards to new wells. The District’s goal is to build/dig 2 new wells to proper depths to run the system.
Community Prevention and Wellness Initiative Update: Tavis Peterson, Assistant Superintendent
Tavis Peterson, Assistant Superintendent whom overseas the Community Prevention & Wellness Initiative program at Wapato School District, Brenda Cueva, Wapato Wellness Coalition Coordinator, One Voice Support, Cristin Georgeton, Student Assistant Professional One Voice Advisor and Kylee Littlebull, WHS Student One Voice President presented an update of the Community Prevention & Wellness Initiative program at Wapato High School. They presented an overview of the Wapato Wellness Initiative and Coalition, Student Assistance program and One Voice Student-led prevention club. The Board engaged in discussion regarding student confidentiality and the impact of the program on students.
Health and Fitness Curriculum Review: Casey Huibregtse, Administrative Intern and Shannon Torres, Executive Director of Teaching and Learning, presented the Fitness and Health Curriculum Review, Adoption and Alignment. Mrs. Huibregtse talked the purpose of the adoption, the committee goals and work and process to review the curriculum and state standards to assure adopted materials are aligned with state standards.
5. Consent Action
Consent action approval of items 5.01-5.06 as presented.
5.01   General Fund Warrant No. 164372 through No. 164432 totaling $167,878.97.
5.02   ASB Fund Warrant No. 11919 through No. 11920 totaling $2,668.72
5.03   Transportation Vehicle Fund Warrant No. 119 totaling $684,377.70
5.04   Personnel Recommendations
5.05   2023-24 Resolution No. 12 Delegation of Authority to WIAA
5.06   K-12 Health and Fitness Curriculum Adoption
Motion by Lorenzo Alvarado, second by Javier Vela.         Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
6. Information/Discussion
Information/Discussion: No new business.
Enrollment Report June 2024: Sylvia Bazan, Director of Fiscal Services, reported the ending enrollment showed a slight increase from the projected enrollment. The Board reviewed and engaged in discussion of the presented report.
7. Closing/Announcements
Closing Remarks and Upcoming Events: Sylvia Bazan, Director of Fiscal Services reported an update of the District ESSER funds. The District plans to fund summer school from ESSER funds and is on track to expense remaining ESSER funding by the end of the school year. In addition, the Distr4ict plans to purchase radios for each building to increase better communication between buildings by improving the radio infrastructure.
Board President John Francisco reminded the members of the upcoming Board Retreat scheduled for June 28. He talked about tentative agenda items and asked member to bring forward any items they want to discuss at the meeting. The meeting will be held at the Yakima Valley Museum and is scheduled to begin at 8:30am.
8. Adjourn
The Board completed its order of business as scheduled on the agenda and with no further business to consider, Board President John Francisco declared the meeting adjourned at 7:00PM.
 