Regular Board Meeting with Public Hearing at 5:30 PM (Wednesday, January 10, 2024)
PUBLIC MEETING OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Meeting Location: Wapato School District Office Boardroom, 212 West 3rd St, Wapato, WA 98951
1. Opening Item
Call to Order: The Board President called the meeting to order at 5:30pm.
Pledge of Allegiance
Verification of Quorum: All members present: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
Agenda: Motion by Lorenzo Alvarado, second by Javier Vela to amend the agenda to add Executive Session to discuss the performance of a public-school employee and approve the agenda as amended.                 Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
Minutes: Approval of the December 18, 2023 Regular and Board Reorganization Meeting minutes as presented.
Motion by Lorenzo Alvarado, second by Sarah Divina.         Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
2. Recognition
In honor of School Board Recognition Month, Superintendent Garza recognized the Board of Directors for their service and dedication to the students, staff, and community of Wapato School District.
At 5:32, the Board took a brief recess and resumed to the Regular Board meeting at 5:38pm.
3. Public Comments
No public comments.
4. PUBLIC HEARING
Overview of Impact Aid and Indian Policies and Procedures: Superintendent Kelly Garza, presented a review of the 2025 Impact Aid application and proposed Indian Policies and Procedures.
Public Comment: No public comment of the presented Impact Aid information and Indian Policies and Procedures
5. Reports
Superintendent's Report: Kelly Garza, Superintendent, reported:
Bond Facts Information has been distributed to many staff, parents and patrons.  The District is scheduled to present this information on Jan. 16 at the Wapato City Council Meeting and on Jan 23 is a Community Forum at Camas Elementary to provide the community information about costs, and project facilities and timeline. The Board asked about signage throughout the community regarding the bond. Mr. Garza reported the Wapato Citizens Committee is working with local business to place Bond information in patron areas. The Board also asked about letters to the editor and waving signs on busy intersections.  The Board is concerned bond information is not being distributed to rural farm areas and farmers that are also voting constituents. Mr. Garza noted the Boards feedback and will bring this to the committee’s next meeting.
In the process of reviewing Construction Management Companies, the District is planning interviews next week and plans to bring forward a recommendation at the next regular school board meeting for board review and action.
The District received an email of notice of being recipients of a grant for an electrical bus. Mr. Garza was surprised of the news since the District did not apply for this type of grant.  Kevin Hill, Executive Director researched the grant and shared what he learned. RCW a transportation company applied for the grant to provide 1 electrical bus in the next 2 years.  The grant award is for $315,000.  Mr. Hill is concerned about maintenance, repairs, housing it, and distance driving and usage. Mr. Hill informed other Districts are also received this grant for electric buses. The overall concerns are the impact to the District and cost to sustain this type of vehicle. The Board engaged in discussion and Mr. Garza will continue to research this grant and its impacts to the District.
Javier Rodriguez shared an update of the pump sewage issue at Satus/Camas Elementary.  Currently the septic service company is coming daily to empty the overflow.  The District continues to await the new pump certification. Staff are monitoring the pump daily.  Mr. Rodriguez informed the pump estimated arrival will be determined after engineers certify the pump for install and usage.  Once the pump is cleared, the District will to schedule a thorough cleanup before electrician and engineers will install.
Financial Report: Sylvia Bazan, Director of Fiscal Services, presented the November 2023 Budget Status report.  She explained in detail the expenditures and revenues in each fund category: General, Capital Projects, Debt Service, ASB, Transportation Vehicle, and Private Purpose.
6. ACTION
Legislative Representative: John Francisco called for volunteers to serve as the School Board Legislative Representative for term January-June 2024.The reviewed and discussed the duties and responsibilities of the School Board Legislative Representative position. No nominations or volunteers were made.  The Board consensus is the position will remain vacant and Mr. Francisco will step in to fulfill necessary tasks as needed.
7. Consent Action
Consent Action approval of items 7.01-7.07 as presented.
7.01 General Fund Warrant No. 163390 through No. 163405 totaling $169,969.77
7.02 ASB Fund Warrant No. 11796 through No. 11797 totaling $6,171.81.
7.03 December Financials paid on 12/29/23: General Fund, ASB Fund, Capital Projects Fund and Payroll Fund.
7.04 Personnel Recommendations
7.05 2023-2024 Resolution No. 5 Transfer of Funds (CPF)
7.06 2023-2024 Resolution No. 6 Transfer of Funds (TVF)
7.07 2nd Reading New Policy No. 5399 Attendance Expectations and Job Abandonment
Motion by Lorenzo Alvarado, second by Sarah Divina.         Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
8. Information/Discussion
Enrollment Report: The Board reviewed the January 2023 Enrollment Report as presented.
Golden Apple Awards: The Board discussed the tasks and planning of the Golden Apple awards that is scheduled for April 17, 2024. They talked about donations and how to get a current list of business address. Lori Garcia and Javier Vela are tasked with getting a current list of business in the City of Wapato.  The Board agreed each member will gather $100 in donations from business and patrons. The goal is to is award each Golden Apple Recipient $100.
Board Retreat: Superintendent Garza asked the Board to look ahead at their availability to plan the Board Retreat. In the past this session has been scheduled in July. Mr. Garza recommends this session take place in June.
9. Closing/Announcements
Mr. Garza informed of upcoming Bond Facts and Information sessions at the Filipino Hall on 1/18 and a Community Forum on 1/23 at Camas Elementary.
Added at the Meeting: EXECUTIVE SESSION
At 6:46, motioned by Javier Vela, second by Lorenzo Alvarado to recess until 6:50pm and reconvene to Executive Session to discuss the performance of public-school employee for 25 minutes, until 7:15pm.
At 7:15pm, Board President John Francisco extended executive session for 10 minutes.
At 7:25pm, Board President John Francisco extended executive session for 15 minutes.
At 7:40pm, Board President John Francisco extended executive session for 5 minutes.
At 7:45pm, Board President John Francisco extended executive session for 10 minutes.
Executive session concluded at 7:55pm.
10. Adjourn
The Board completed its order of business as scheduled on the agenda and with no further business to consider, Board President John Francisco declared the meeting adjourned at 7:55pm.