Regular Board Meeting at 5:30 PM (Monday, March 11, 2024)
PUBLIC MEETING OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Meeting Location: Wapato School District Office Boardroom, 212 West 3rd St, Wapato, WA 98951
1. Opening Item
Call to Order: Board President called the meeting to order at 5:30pm.
Pledge of Allegiance
Verification of Quorum: All members present: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
Agenda: Approval of the agenda as presented.
Motion by Lorenzo Alvarado, second by Javier Vela.         Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
Minutes: Approval of the February 26, 2024 Work Session and February 26,2024 Regular Board Meeting minutes as presented.
Motion by Sarah Divina, second by Lori Garcia.    Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
2. Public Comments
No public comments.
3. Reports
Superintendent's Report: Tavis Peterson, Assistant Superintendent, reported:
WHS Girls Basketball Team placed 5th in the State this year and ended the season with a 22-4 record.
Spring Sports are underway and 271 students are participating this Spring. This will be the largest turn out of student participation for Spring sports at Wapato High School. Games are underway. Track participated in a Jamboree this past weekend, Golf had their first match on Friday and Boys Soccer on Saturday.
WHS Robotics & Engineering Club received an award this past weekend and will compete again this coming weekend at the Yakima SunDome to qualify for Districts competition on April 4-5.
Registration for the coming school year is open and thus far, there are 11 Kindergarten, 9 Transitional Kinder, and 5 Preschool students registered for the 2024-25 school year.
Preparation and planning have started for the annual Cultural Unity Fair (CUF). CUF will be 2-part event, same as last year, with a Performance Night on March 20th and the Food Festival on March 31st, 4:30-7PM. Tickets are on sale today.
All board members are registered to attend the NSBA Conference in April. Lori Garcia and Sarah Divina are registered to attend pre-conference workshops prior to the conference.
John Francisco asked for an update of an incident on Friday at Wapato High School. Mr. Peterson reported, the District is consulting with legal counsel for next steps and may pursue legal action.
Equitable Continuous Growth Plan: David Blakney, Principal Wapato High School, Superintendent Intern, presented the work to update the District's Equitable Continuous Growth Plan. The current plan is dated 2021-2024. He explained the process for updating the Equitable Continuous Growth Plan and the purpose of this report is to gather the Board's input. He explained the 4 areas of focus. Mr. Blakney reported he has presented at every school to all staff to gather data, input and feedback to update the plan. The Board compared the 2018-2021 and the current plan. The Board engaged in discussion and all members had an opportunity to provide feedback and input for each area of focus. Mr. Blakney explained the next step is to compile all the data and bring a draft updated plan for Board review and further input in May. The goal is to have this entire process completed by August 2024.
Wapato Online Academy Program Update: Allyson Vinson, Online Learning Coordinator, presented an update of the Wapato Online Academy Program. She reported: 1) New things happening in the 2023-24 school year; 2) The Student & Parent Handbook is an acknowledgement of the expectations in the program and students have the opportunity on Wednesdays to come into her office during the day to access any materials or for any additional help with studies. 3) K-5 Semester 1&2 Enrollment Data and K-5 Intervention Plan, 6-12 Grade Semester 1 & 2 Enrollment Data, Successful completion rate over the last 3 semesters, for students who are behind. She informed Online Academy offers AP courses and students on IEP's are able to participate in online classes and explained how IEP plans are met. Students in online learning are involved in after school sports. She explained the process for students who are not successful in online courses and process to return to in person learning. Online seniors who meet graduation requirements in the program graduate with Wapato High School graduation ceremony. The Board engaged in discussion.
Construction Update and Capital Projects Update: Kevin Hill was not present to report and Tavis Peterson, Assistant Superintendent and Sylvia Bazan reported on his behalf. They presented and reviewed the final Professional Services Agreement with OAC Services and explained the changes and updates to the contract. Mrs. Bazan explained the schedule of work and affirmed if the District requires more services beyond the contract, the District will negotiate those changes on a separate agreement. The contract has been vetted by legal counsel. Mrs. Bazan explained the next steps and clarified payment will be as services are rendered and paid out monthly, not as a lump sum. Tavis Peterson, reviewed the final Capital Project 2024 list recommendations. He explained the list presented is taking into consideration the Board's feedback from the February 26th work session. The Board engaged in discussion regarding projects on the list such as key card cost for individual classrooms, the Fire system sprinkler and inspection, and the reason for the removal of the MS ramp from the list. Mr. Peters explained the reason for the removal of the MS ramp and will get back to the Board with more details on the Fire System Sprinkler & Inspection concerns throughout the District. And reported an update of Camas/Satus septic pump status. The District continues to wait for final approval of the pump by State engineers to move forward with the replacement.
4. Consent Action
Consent action approval of items 4.01-4.09 as presented.
4.01 General Fund Warrant No. 163761 through No. 163780 totaling $177,080.58
4.02 ASB Fund Warrant No. 11840 through No. 11841 totaling $9,419.00
4.03 Personnel Recommendations
4.04 Professional Services Agreement between WSD and OAC as the Construction
4.05 Capital Projects 2024 Recommendation
4.06 Camas/Satus Library Surplus
4.07 2nd Reading Revised Policy 2121 Substance Abuse Program
4.08 2nd Reading Revised Policy 5001 Hiring of Retired School Employees
4.09 2nd Reading Revised Policy No. 5005 Employment and Volunteers: Disclosures, Certification Requirements, Assurances and Approval
Motion by Javier Vela, second by Sarah Divina.    Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
5. Information/Discussion
Information/Discussion: No new business was introduced.
Enrollment Report March 2024: The Board reviewed the enrollment report as presented.
1st Reading Revised Policy No. 2004 Performance Improvement Goals: The Board reviewed revised policy as presented. The policy will move to 2nd reading and action at the next regular board meeting.
1st Reading Revised Policy No. 2230 Transition to Kindergarten Program: The Board reviewed revised policy as presented. The policy will move to 2nd reading and action at the next regular board meeting.
Reviewed Policy 5642 and Revised Procedure 5642P/5642F Administrative Internship: The Board reviewed the reviewed policy and revised procedure as presented.
Revised Procedure 2121P Substance Abuse Program: The Board reviewed the revised procedure as presented.
Legal Reference Update of Policy 3246 and Revised Procedure 3246P Restraint, Isolation, Other Uses of Reasonable Force: The Board reviewed the revised procedure as presented.
6. Closing/Announcements
Mr. Francisco proposed each board member contact local businesses by mailing letters of support for this year's Golden Apple Awards. Lori Garcia provided a list of local businesses. Mr. Alvarado preferred not contact just local businesses as he has secured support from other businesses. Mr. Francisco commented the purpose is to contact local business to continue the support within the Wapato community.
Mr. Francisco informed, Tricia Lubach is not available on June 28th to attend the Board Retreat and suggested Cynthia McMullen is available to facilitate the special meeting. The board consensus is to move forward with Mrs. McMullen facilitating the special meeting.
7. Adjourn
The Board completed its order of business as scheduled on the agenda and with no further business to consider, Board President John Francisco declared the meeting adjourned at 7:23PM.
 