Regular Board Meeting at 5:30 PM (Monday, September 9, 2024)
PUBLIC MEETING OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Meeting Location: District Office Boardroom, 212 West 3rd Street, Wapato, WA 98951
1. Opening Item
Call to Order: Board President John Francisco called the meeting to order at 5:30pm.
Pledge of Allegiance
Verification of Quorum: All members present: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
Agenda: Approval of the agenda as presented.
Motion by Lorenzo Alvarado, second by Sarah Divina.      Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
2. Public Comments
Vanessa Tahkeal commented the Roots to Wings Program is currently not offered at Wapato Schools.
3. Reports
Superintendent's Report: Kelly Garza, Superintendent, reported:
An update of an incident that occurred regarding a bus.
Enrollment has slowly increase and the District has met its enrollment projection for the 2024-25 school year.
He participated in the Harvest Parade over the holiday weekend. The District handed out books and candy.
He has been working on the Board of Distinction application and it will be submitted before the next school board meeting. He noted a large part of the application is focused on the successful passing of the Bond.
Attendance and chronic absenteeism are vital data and are currently being reviewed and there will be a report to the Board at an upcoming meeting of the District process regarding Attendance.
Safety and Security are a high priority and Tavis Peterson will share more information on this topic at the next regular meeting.
Fall sports are underway and 193 athletes are participating at Wapato High School and 135 athletes at Wapato Middle School.
Construction Update: Kevin Hill, Executive Director, reported an Energy company will visit the District tomorrow to review and gather more information for a possible new grant for 2 new wells.
The Architect team will be on site this month to meet with PACE staff to begin gathering feedback for design process.  Mr. Garza is working on assembly a committee of staff, families, and students to participate in the design process. The Board engaged in discussion regarding the design process, building specs and plans.  Mr. Hill reported there are other schools in the State of similar building size and the District is planning to visit and tour some of those schools.  ALSC shared their understating of the students, needs and the importance of every student every day and will consider all spaces even the hallways being useful areas.
The Board engaged in discussion regarding the details of the design process.
Enrollment Report September 2024: Sylvia Bazan, Director of Fiscal Services, presented the September enrollment report.  She reported enrollment data in each grade. She noted there are 3 grades that are just shy of projection but overall a positive report.  The Board engaged in discussion regarding funding amounts for transitional kinder, and enrollment and funding for those students attending YVTech, Running Start or students that are attending other districts.
4. Consent Action
Consent action approval of items 4.01-4.04 as presented:
4.01   Payroll Fund X-Cycle Warrant No. 164939-164940
4.02   Personnel Recommendations
4.03   Ratification of (2022-2025) WEA/WSD CBA Reopeners Agreement
4.04   Satus/Camas Elementary Library Book Surplus
Motion by Lorenzo Alvarado, second by Sarah Divina.      Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
5. Information/Discussion
Superintendent Garza opened the opportunity to a guest speaker regarding the Roots to Wings program in response to today’s public comment regarding Wapato SD’s participation in the program for grades 6-12.  The board engaged in discussion. John Francisco noted this discussion to continue at a future meeting.
6. Closing/Announcements
No closing remarks.
7. Executive Session
At 6:15pm, Board President John Francisco moved to recess until 6:20 pm and then reconvene to executive session for 30 minutes to discuss the performance of a public-school employee and to consider the selection of real estate by purchase when public knowledge regarding such consideration would cause a likelihood of increased price.
  Executive session concluded at 6:50pm.
8. Adjourn
The Board completed its order of business as scheduled on the agenda and with no further business to consider, Board President John Francisco declared the meeting adjourned at 6:50pm.