CITY OF PULLMAN
PLANNING COMMISSION
Regular Meeting Minutes
June 28, 2023
The City of Pullman Planning Commission held a regular meeting at 7:00 p.m. on Wednesday,
June 28, 2023 in Council Chambers, City Hall, 190 SE Crestview, Building A, Pullman,
Washington with Vice-Chair Brent Carper presiding.
ROLL CALL:
Present: Carper, Hodge, Joswig-Jones, O'Callaghan, O'English, Taylor
Excused: Anderson
Staff:
Lott, Johnson

CARPER

Called the meeting to order at 7:01 pm and called roll.

MOTION

Hodge moved to accept the minutes of the Regular Meeting
of May 24, 2023. Seconded by O'English and passed
unanimously.

REGULAR BUSINESS
Conduct a public hearing to
review and recommend action on
the proposed West End Villas
Planned Residential Development
preliminary plan and preliminary
plat involving the division of 5.26
acres into 65 lots and public
streets to be located north of
Pullman High School, south NW
High Point Court, and east of NW
Valley View Drive.

Carper introduced the item of business, which involves a
piece of property north of Pullman High School, south NW
High Point Court, and east of NW Valley View Drive, on
Military Hill. Carper read the rules of procedure for quasijudicial public hearings, administered the oath or affirmation
to members of the public who wished to speak, and qualified
the Commissioners.
O'Callaghan answered yes to questions 'd' and 'g', later
stating that his employer, Steve Mader, is a part owner of the
subject property, but he does not have any knowledge of this
matter. Carper recused O'Callaghan from the hearing.
Carper asked for the staff report.

LOTT

Lott gave a summary of the staff report and entered written
comments from (by last name) Coulter and Klein, Bowen,
Chalich, Pullman School District, Klein, Vik, Udy, Larsen,
and Dephtereos and Thoma, into the record as Attachment
M.

CARPER

Called for a 1 O-minute recess to start at 7: 15 PM, so that
Commissioners and the applicant would have an opportunity
to review the written comments that comprise Attachment M.
Called the meeting back to order at 7:25 PM.

