Regular Council Meeting (Tuesday, March 26, 2024)
Generated by Dee Stiles-Elliott on Wednesday, March 27, 2024
    City of Pullman
Council Minutes
City Council Chambers
190 SE Crestview Street
Pullman, WA 99163
7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, March 26, 2024
      Members present
  Mayor Francis Benjamin, Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, and Trymaine Gaither.
  The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m.
  A. Call to Order: Roll Call
  B. Announcements
  Mayor Benjamin made six annoucements.
  C. Community Comments
  Mayor Benjamin opened public comment to take any comments on consent or regular agenda items on which the Council will take final action but excluded items where public comment was previously accepted, including prior Public Hearings.  
  Pullman Resident Elizabeth Siler requested the Council consider installing additional ADA parking stalls on Main Street. 
  Pullman Resident Pamela Lee urged the Council to add two ADA parking stalls on Kamiaken and Grand Streets.
  Pullman Civic Trust president Bobbie Ryder presented ideas for downtown bike lanes related to the Project Downtown.
  D. City Councilmember Comments
  Councilmember Fejeran said there will be a OnePalouse Business Funding Summit on Tuesday, April 9, 2024, at 9:00 a.m. at the Palouse Ridge Golf Club Event Center.
  E. Mayor’s Comments
  Mayor Benjamin had no comments.
  F. Committee, Commission, Board Reports
  There were no reports.
  G. City Council and Mayor Future Regular Agenda Requests
  There were no requests.
  H. Community Comments on Final Action Items for this Agenda
  There were no comments.
  I.  Confirmation of Appointments
  There were no appointments.
  J. Presentations
  Presentations: 1.  Port of Whitman Updates
Executive Director Kara Riebold explained that the Port of Whitman has a board of three commissioners elected to guide the Port.  The Port of Whitman is county-wide, covering the entire county.  The commissioners are divided into three districts, which match the same districts as the county commissioners.  
One of the main objections that the board has is economic development activities focusing on improving the quality of life for people in Whitman County through economic development, industrial real estate development, multimodal transportation, airports, railways, waterways, freight traffic, and water recreational opportunities.  
The Port of Whitman hosts economic development informational meetings every other month, inviting elected officials from towns and cities within the county to come and learn about what’s happening.  Director Kiebold gave a brief overview of the projects the Port of Whitman has been working on. 
Presentations: 2.  Transit Service to the Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport Pilot Project
Transit Manager Wayne Thompson explained Pullman Transit received grant funding from the state Department of Transportation in the spring of 2023 to expand transit service to the Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport for two years.  Staffing levels have increased to a point where the service can be offered, and the pilot program is anticipated to begin mid-May.   The airport service will be a designated route for the airport without any other stops, including late night and early morning service, as well as holidays except for New Year’s Day, Thanksgiving, or Christmas. 
K. Consent Agenda.
  The items listed under the consent agenda are considered to be routine in nature and will be enacted by a single motion of the City Council without separate discussion.
  Action: 1.  A motion to read the Consent Agenda by title only.
  Motion by Megan Guido, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
  L. Consent Agenda items
  Action (Consent), Minutes: 1.
  A motion to dispense with the reading of the March 12, 2024 meeting minutes and approve them as submitted.
  Action (Consent): 2.
  A motion authorizing the acceptance of $600,000 from Washington State University for the Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport Terminal Project.
  Action (Consent): 3.
  A motion to authorize the execution of renewal with RingCentral for citywide VOIP telephonic and virtual meeting services.
  Action (Consent): 4.
  A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered 2010768 through 2010860 totaling $2,582,464.40
  Action (Consent): 5.
  A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered 2010861 through 2010907 totaling $465,716.74
  Action (Consent): 6.
  A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks, Electronic Transfers, and ADP Payroll Transfers totaling $1,555,099.66
  Action (Consent), Resolution: 7.
  RESOLUTION NO. R-18-24 - A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE SUBMITTAL OF A CERTIFIED LOCAL GOVERNMENT GRANT APPLICATION TO THE WASHINGTON STATE DEPARTMENT OF ARCHAEOLOGY AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION FOR THE PURPOSE OF RESEARCHING UNDERREPRESENTED POPULATIONS IN PULLMAN’S HISTORY.
  Mayor Benjamin asked if the Council would like any consent agenda items removed for further discussion.  There were none
  Motion by Megan Guido, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
  At 7:59 p.m., Mayor Benjamin adjourned the Pullman City Council’s regular meeting and convened the special meeting of the Metropolitan Parks District. 
  At 8:22 p.m., Mayor Benjamin adjourned the Special Meeting of Metropolitan Park District and reconvened the regular meeting of the Pullman City Council. 
  M. Public Hearing
  There was not a public hearing.
  N. Regular Agenda
  City Engineer Cara Haley explained The scope of contract 23-08, Canyon View Trail, consists of constructing 2,155 linear feet of 12-foot-wide new or re-built gravel trail and maintenance/refinishing of 1,190 linear feet of 10- to 12-foot-wide existing gravel trail in the vicinity of Conservation Park, traversing from NW Canyon View Drive to NW Harrison Street.  See the location depicted on the attached exhibit.  Work also includes constructing several concrete curbs, gutters, and sidewalks, installing storm sewer pipes and two catch basins, implementing temporary erosion and sedimentation control measures, landscape restoration, and other miscellaneous related work.  
  Bids for this project were opened on March 14, 2024, with four proposals received.  The low bidder is East Slope Earthworks, LLC, at $270,525.50.  The Engineer’s Estimate is $305,930.00.  A copy of the bid summary is attached for reference.  Funding for this project will be from the 2018 Parks and Paths Bond Fund and the Sewer Maintenance Budget of the Utility Fund.
  Onsite work is expected to occur this spring/summer and be completed by mid-October.
        Action, Resolution: 1.  
  RESOLUTION NO. R-19-24 – A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING THE BID OF EAST SLOPE EARTHWORKS, LLC FOR THE CANYON VIEW TRAIL PROJECT AND AUTHORIZING EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THE CONTRACT FOR SAID PROJECT.
  By motion, adopt resolution no. R-19-24 awarding contract 23-08, Canyon View Trail, to East Slope Earthworks, LLC for the bid amount of $270,525.50.
  Motion by Nathan Weller, second by Megan Guido.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
  City Engineer Cara Haley explained the scope of contract 24-01, Military Hill Resurfacing, which consists of a 2-inch grind and hot mix asphalt overlay on NW Hall Drive from NW Orion Drive southeast to NW Stadium Way and NW Stadium Way from NW Nye Street to N Grand Avenue. 
  The project includes pavement patching and crack filling, as warranted, following pavement grinding operations, miscellaneous striping, utility cover adjustments, and concrete sidewalk/curb ramp construction.  Minor spot repair of existing storm and sanitary sewer is also included, along with constructing a small segment of a new water main within the proposed resurfacing limits.
  Bids for this project were opened on March 7, 2024, and one proposal was received.  The low bidder is Motley-Motley, Inc., at $655,854.22.  The Engineer’s Estimate is $722,004.33.  City Staff has reviewed the bid and determined that the unit prices are fair and represent the work involved.
  A Transportation Improvement Board (TIB) grant covers much of the total project cost, including the construction contract amount and other anticipated construction engineering costs.  The current project commitment by TIB is $530,288, with the City responsible for covering the remainder of the total project cost ($150,566 of $680,854 total estimated).  Local match/funding will be from the Arterial Street Fund, Stormwater Fund, and the Water and Sewer Maintenance Budgets of the Utility Fund. 
  Onsite work is expected to commence as early as mid-June and be completed by mid-August before the WSU fall semester starts.
  Action, Resolution: 2.  
  RESOLUTION NO. R-20-24 – A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING THE BID OF MOTLEY-MOTLEY, INC. FOR THE MILITARY HILL RESURFACING PROJECT AND AUTHORIZING EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THE CONTRACT FOR SAID PROJECT.
  By motion, adopt resolution no. R-20-24 awarding contract 24-01, Military Hill Resurfacing, to Motley-Motley, Inc. for the bid amount of $655,854.22.
  Motion by Eric Fejeran, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
  O. Discussion Items
  Discussion Items: 1.  
  City Council Discussion on Process for Project Downtown Design Change Orders
Public Works Director Sean Wells explained that since the February 27th Council meeting, Welch Comer has had two public open house meetings.  They received numerous project change comments and requests from several community members.  They compiled and aggregated them down into 32 comments that represented eight different topics and themes.  If the comments were similar, they were combined to like comments.
Welch Comer and City Staff met to review the comments.  Some of the questions during the meeting were: What are they asking for?  Can we accommodate it?  Can we not accommodate the request?  What does it look like?  Is the request technically feasible?  Is the request within the Council’s approved criteria?  The comments were divided into parking, bike lanes, traffic operations, sidewalks, and planters/trees. 
Does the request increase the cost of the project?
Estimated cost to recommend a change.
Will it extend the construction schedule?
Will it require outside agency review?
Of the 32 comments/suggestions received, Welch Comer recommends that 22 of the comments/suggestions not be considered. 
Mayor Benjamin announced that the City had found out about a Complete Streets early funding transportation port Improvement Board TIB grant in February.  TIB met last week and was notified today that the City was awarded the $1 million TIB grant.  The specific criteria for this grant are that the monies can only be applied to the approved Downtown Project request bid that was approved on December 23, 2023.  The bid additives the Council agreed on when the bid was accepted can be funded with these grant monies, but any change orders cannot be funded with these dollars.  The bid additives not selected due to budget constraints can now be added to the seven additives selected and funded by the CIP, General & Utility Funds. 
Welch Comer Vice President Matt Gillis explained Welch Comer had spent a lot of time over the last couple of months, both just holistically and focused on the Open House public meetings, gathering more information, understanding people’s concerns, understanding potential changes that are on people’s minds, and also providing some more clarity, explaining the project in more detail helping people understand what’s coming.  All recommendations received were given through the lens of the criteria provided by Pullman City Council.  Matt reviewed each comment/suggestion received and explained how the team decided to recommend or not recommend the comment/suggestion. 
P. New Business
  Mayor Benjamin advised the Council ASWU has invited Pullman City Council to a joint meeting on Wednesday, April 3, 2024, at 5:30 p.m. in the CUB room 204, and he asked what topics the Council would like to discuss with ASWSU. 
  Councilmember De Lira suggested discussing public transportation, food insecurity, renters’ experiences, and living off campus.
  Councilmember Weller suggested discussing the Downtown Project, mental health, homelessness, economic challenges, and veteran students. 
  Councilmember Parks suggested asking ASWSU if they have any questions or concerns about the Downtown Project.
  Councilmember Gaither suggested discussing sexual assault prevention and sexual violence advocacy. 
  Q. Executive Session
  There was not an executive session.
  R. Adjournment
  Motion by Nathan Weller, second by Pat Wright, to adjourn the regular meeting of Pullman City Council.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
  The meeting adjourned at 10:03 p.m.
    ______________________________
City Clerk Dee Stiles-Elliott