Regular Council Meeting (Tuesday, September 10, 2024)
Generated by Dee Stiles-Elliott on Wednesday, September 11, 2024

City of Pullman
Council Minutes
City Council Chambers
190 SE Crestview Street
Pullman, WA 99163
7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, September 10, 2024
Members present
Mayor Francis Benjamin, Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran,
and Carla De Lira.
A. Call to Order
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m.
Action: 1. Roll Call
A motion to excuse Councilmember Gaither.
Motion by Nathan Weller, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
B. Announcements
Mayor Benjamin made nine announcements.
C. Community Comments
William, a Moscow, Idaho resident, spoke about the death of an American citizen in Israel and
condemned the antisemitic comments by the Pullman Islamic Association Imam.
D. City Councilmember Comments
Councilmember Weller commented on a resident being ticketed for using indoor furniture
outside and asked for clarification on the city code prohibiting the use.
E. Mayor's Comments
Mayor Benjamin had no comments.
F. Committee, Commission, Board Reports
There were no reports.
G. City Council and Mayor Future Regular Agenda Requests
Councilmember Weller requested that Code Enforcement give a presentation on city code title
5, which concerns house furniture used outside.
H. Community Comments on Final Action Items for this Agenda
There were no comments.
I. Confirmation of Appointments
Action: 1.

A motion to confirm the appointments of Michael Heim, Robert Harris, and Yelonda
Wilke to the Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging Committee.
Motion by Nathan Weller, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
J. Presentations
There were no presentations.
K. Consent Agenda.
The items listed under the consent agenda are considered to be routine in nature and
will be enacted by a single motion of the City Council without separate discussion.
Action: 1.
A motion to read the Consent Agenda by title only.
Motion by Pat Wright, second by Megan Guido.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
L. Consent Agenda items
Action (Consent): 1.
A motion to dispense with the reading of the August 27, 2024, regular meeting minutes
and approve them as submitted.
Action (Consent): 2.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
20112391 through 20112426 totaling $143,825.26
Action (Consent): 3.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
20112427 through 20112497 totaling $252,120.33
Action (Consent): 4.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks; Electronic
Transfers; and ADP Payroll Transfers totaling $1,126,503.66
Action (Consent): 5.
A motion to authorize the submittal of a capital grant application for two electric Transit
buses through the state's Consolidated Grant Program
Action (Consent), Resolution: 6.
RESOLUTION NO. R-56-24 - A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING A PUBLIC SIDEWALK
EASEMENT GRANTED BY JMT ESTATE INVESTMENTS, LLC, AUTHORIZING THE
EXECUTION OF SAID EASEMENT AND PROVIDING FOR OTHER MATTERS
PROPERLY RELATED THERETO.
Mayor Benjamin asked the Council if they would like any consent agenda items removed for
further discussion. There were none.
Motion by Megan Guido, second by Eric Fejeran.

Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
M. Public Hearing
There was not a public hearing.
N. Regular Agenda
Action, Resolution: 1.
Parks & Facilities Director Kurt Dahmen explained that the City of Pullman Hometown Heroes
Banner Program would allow the community to recognize and honor Pullman residents and their
immediate family members who have served or are currently serving in the United States Armed
Forces. Hometown Heroes banners will be displayed from Avista owned streetlight poles and
contribute to the city’s quality of life while promoting civic pride. Approval has been granted from
Avista Utilities for banners to be displayed on streetlight poles along Fairmount Drive from South
Grand to Bishop Boulevard. To allow for a coordinated and consistent program, the City and
Maynard-Price Post 52 American Legion of Pullman have established a policy and guidelines
for this program.
RESOLUTION NO. R-57-24 - A RESOLUTION ADOPTING A CITY OF PULLMAN
HOMETOWN HEROES BANNER PROGRAM POLICY AND GUIDELINES
Motion by Nathan Weller, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
O. Discussion Items
The Mayor and City Council discussed their draft Legislative Priorities. The Council provided
input and suggestions on how to better the document for adoption.
P. New Business
Mayor Benjamin asked if any new business would come before the Council. There was none.
Q. Executive Session
At 7:49 p.m., Mayor Benjamin announced at this time, the City Council will adjourn to an
Executive Session pursuant to RCW 42.30.110(1)(i), to discuss with legal counsel representing
the City matters relating to agency enforcement actions or to discuss with legal counsel
representing the agency potential litigation concerning (ii) Litigation that the agency reasonably
believes may be commenced by or against the agency, the governing body, or a member acting
in an official capacity; or (iii) Litigation or legal risks of a proposed action or current practice that
the agency has identified when public discussion of the litigation or legal risks is likely to result
in an adverse legal or financial consequence to the agency.
While the provisions of the Open Public Meeting Act do not apply to discussions relating to the
interpretation or application of a labor agreement or that portion of a meeting during which the
governing body is planning or adopting the strategy or position to be taken during the course of
any collective bargaining, professional negotiations, or grievance or mediation proceedings, or
reviewing the proposals made during the course of negotiations or proceedings, the City Council
is announcing its intention to discuss such matters in executive session.
The Executive Session is expected to last approximately 10 minutes. If it becomes necessary to
extend it, someone will return to announce the additional time the City Council will need.
The Council does not anticipate taking action following the Executive Session.
The Executive Session began at 7:53 p.m.

At 8:03 p.m., an announcement was made that Council would extend its Executive Session for
an additional five minutes.
At 8:08 p.m., an announcement was made that the Council would extend its Executive Session
for an additional two minutes.
At 8:10 p.m., an announcement was made that the Council would extend its Executive Session
for an additional two minutes.
At 8:12 p.m., an announcement was made the that Council would extend its Executive Session
for an additional three minutes.
R. Adjournment
A motion to adjourn the Regular Meeting of Pullman City Council.
Motion by Nathan Weller, second by Carla De Lira
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
The meeting adjourned at 8:15 p.m.

_____________________________
City Clerk Dee Stiles-Elliott

