Regular Council Meeting (Tuesday, November 19, 2024)
Generated by Dee Stiles-Elliott on Wednesday, November 20, 2024

City of Pullman
Council Minutes
City Council Chambers
190 SE Crestview Street
Pullman, WA 99163
7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, November 19, 2024
Members present
Mayor Francis Benjamin, Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric
Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m.
A. Roll Call
B. Announcements
Mayor Benjamin made six announcements.
C. Community Comments
Tom Thompson opposes the Israel-Gaza resolution, emphasizing that it should not be
the city council's concern and could cause division in the community.
Chelsea Whitney from the Downtown Pullman Association provides updates on the recent
Trick or Treat event, which saw over 600 attendees, and the well-attended Cement Mixer
Pub Crawl.
Judy Kolde, President of the Downtown Association, thanks the council for their support
and clarifies that they do not necessarily need financial contributions but appreciate any
in-kind support.
Rick Grunewald supports the council's efforts downtown and opposes the proposed
ceasefire resolution.
Brent Carper thanked the council for supporting downtown businesses during
construction and asked the council to consider using maximum sidewalk areas downtown
to prevent choke points.
Leda Zakarison spoke in favor of passing a cease-fire resolution.
Nancy Grunewald opposes the proposed ceasefire resolution and feels the council should
focus on Pullman issues.
D. City Councilmember Comments
Councilmember Fejeran thanked the Downtown Pullman Association and the Pullman
Civic Trust for the events they held downtown last weekend.
Councilmember Weller updated the audience on the Ruck the Fallen event last weekend,
which raised $10,000 for fire, police, and military persons, and thanked everyone who
attended.
E. Mayor's Comments
Mayor Benjamin thanked everyone participating in the downtown event to show off the
new sidewalks downtown.

F. Committee, Commission, Board Reports
There were no reports.
G. City Council and Mayor Future Regular Agenda Requests
There were no requests.
H. Community Comments on Final Action Items for this Agenda
There were no comments.
I. Confirmation of Appointments
There were no appointments.
J. Presentations
There were no presentations.
K. Consent Agenda.
The items listed under the consent agenda are considered to be routine in nature
and will be enacted by a single motion of the City Council without separate
discussion.
Action: 1. A motion to read the Consent Agenda by title only.
Motion by Ann Parks, second by Eric Fejeran.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
L. Consent Agenda items
Action (Consent), Resolution: 1.
RESOLUTION NO. R-61-24 - A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE
EXECUTION OF LEASES FOR EACH CITY-OWNED GUY STREET
PROPERTY ON THE TERMS SET FORTH FOR EACH PROPERTY
Action (Consent), Resolution: 2.
RESOLUTION NO. R-62-24 - A RESOLUTION DECLARING CERTAIN
PROPERTY OF THE CITY OF PULLMAN TO BE EXCESS AND SURPLUS
PROPERTY AND AUTHORIZING THE MEANS OF DISPOSAL
Action (Consent): 3.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
201128774 through 201128829 totaling $360,793.38
Action (Consent): 4.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks, Electronic
Transfers, and ADP Payroll Transfers totaling $1,679,364.79
Action (Consent): 5.
A Motion to Authorize the Mayor to Execute an Agreement with Whitman County
District Court for Misdemeanor & Gross Misdemeanor Prosecution, Indigent
Defense, Adjudication and Incarceration Costs for 2025 Court Services in Pullman.

Motion by Pat Wright, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
M. Public Hearing
There was not a public hearing.
N. Regular Agenda
Finance Director Jeff Elbracht explained that on September 24, 2024, the Pullman City
Council held a public hearing on revenue sources.
On October 29, 2024, and November 4, 2024, budget workshops were held with
department managers to review the 2025-2026 expenditures budget components.
The City Council held a public hearing on the 2025-2026 Mayor's Proposed Budget for the
City of Pullman on November 12, 2024. After the public hearing, the City Council
discussed the budget document. The discussion from the City Council supported
opportunities for park development at High Street Plaza that can be addressed through
the City PROS Master Plan and the 2026-2031 CIP. Opportunities for support to the
Pullman Downtown Association can be further developed and addressed as the details
become available.
Action, Ordinance: 1.
ORDINANCE NO. 24-14 - AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A BIENNIAL BUDGET
FOR THE CITY OF PULLMAN FOR THE BIENNIUM 2025-2026.
Motion by Pat Wright, second by Megan Guido.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
Deputy Public Works Director Clayton Forsmann explained that the City is currently under
contract with Parametrix, Inc., to provide final design plans for improvements to Airport
Drive. This work is funded through a federal Rebuilding American Infrastructure with
Sustainability and Equity (RAISE) Grant Agreement.
The City’s Capital Improvement Program includes projects extending water and sewer
utilities through the Airport Drive corridor to its east end at Orville Boyd Road. The design
of the water and sewer utilities must be coordinated with the roadway improvements to
ensure that they account for each other. City staff envisioned that the same consultant
would design the utility work parallel to the roadway design work. Thus, when the City
solicited consultant services for the roadway project, the advertisement provided that the
City could use the selected consultant for other design services related to Airport Drive,
including water and sewer design.
City staff have since negotiated a scope of work and budget for the water and sewer design
work for Airport Drive. The full scope of work is attached as Exhibit A to the Engineering
Services Agreement. The project will be completed on a cost-reimbursable basis with a
not-to-exceed budget of $99,385 for the waterline design and $194,540 for the sewer
conveyance design. Funding for the design of the water and sewer portion of this overall
project will be from the Utility Capital Fund. The overall project is included in the City's
Capital Improvement Program. The water and sewer design are anticipated to be
complete by the end of 2025. The timing of construction for this project is contingent upon
the fully funded Airport Drive improvements project.
Action, Resolution: 2.

RESOLUTION NO. R-63-24 - A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION
OF AN ENGINEERING SERVICES AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF
PULLMAN AND PARAMETRIX, INC. FOR THE AIRPORT DRIVE WATERLINE
AND SEWER CONVEYANCE PROJECT.
Motion by Megan Guido, second by Carla De Lira.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
Recreation Manager Megan Vining explained that the Public Services Department
reviews parks and recreation program fees and facility charges annually for the upcoming
year for activities and presents the recommendations to the City Council for their
consideration and approval.
City Staff analyzes fees or charges directly impacted by outside factors, such as minimum
wage increases and third-party costs for programs that require additional support and
equipment or are more staff-intensive.
At the Parks & Recreation Commission meeting on November 13, Commission members
endorsed the changes to the 2025 Parks and Recreation Primary Program and Facility
Use and Fee Schedule for City Council consideration and approval.
Action, Resolution: 3.
RESOLUTION NO. R-64-24 - A RESOLUTION AMENDING A FEE SCHEDULE
FOR PARKS AND RECREATION PROGRAMS AND FACILITY USE EFFECTIVE
JANUARY 1, 2025
Motion by Pat Wright, second by Trymaine Gaither.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
At 7:38 p.m., Mayor Benjamin adjourned the regular meeting of the Pullman City Council
and convened the special meeting of the Metropolitan Parks District.
At 7:40 p.m., Mayor Benjamin adjourned the special meeting of the Metropolitan Parks
District.
At 7:45 p.m., Mayor Benjamin reconvened the regular meeting of the Pullman City
Council.
O. Discussion Items
Discussion Items: 1.
Associated Students of WSU Representatives and City Council discussion on common
interests
Mayor Benjamin welcomed the ASWSU Representatives and asked them to introduce
themselves.
ASWSU’s initiatives focus on mental health, diversity, legislative advocacy, and
community engagement.
WSU legislation provided updates on the projects they are currently working on.
The Council and ASWSU discussed the following topics:
•

Updates on the Downtown Pullman Project.

Mayor Benjamin explained that the construction is nearly finished, which will slow traffic
and reduce noise. The new infrastructure includes water, sewer, stormwater systems,
sidewalks, and businesses.
•

Extending transit services on the weekend.

Transit Manager Wayne Thompson explained the process of requesting route changes.
Transit receives recommendations from WSU transit services and the WSU Transit
Advisory Group and uses those when evaluating the routes. Wayne explained they
consider all requests, but funding has to be in place for changes.
•

ASWSU involvement in community projects and events.

The Council encourages ASWSU to get involved in community projects and events
through platforms like GivePulse and by contacting local nonprofits that seek volunteers.
Mayor Benjamin encouraged the students to serve on city committees and commissions.
•

What has the city been doing regarding safety?

Police Chief Jake Opgenorth explained that Pullman has two police jurisdictions. WSU
has its own department. Pullman Police performs proactive patrols and walk audits,
looking for unsafe areas. Chief Opgenorth encouraged people to say something and
always report it if they see something.
•

ASWSU involvement in the Town-Gown Collaborative.

Mayor Benjamin described the collaboration as a partnership between the university and
the city, focusing on increasing connectivity and belonging. The collaboration has three
main committees: Connectivity and Belonging, College Hill Matters, and Marketing
Events. The Mayor and Council encouraged and discussed the importance of student
participation in the collaborative and suggested ways to increase student involvement.
P. New Business
Mayor Benjamin asked if any new business would come before the Council. There was
none.
Q. Executive Session
There was no executive session.
R. Adjournment
Action, Motions: 1. A motion to adjourn the meeting.
Motion by Nathan Weller, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
The meeting adjourned at 9:23 p.m.

_______________________
City Clerk Dee Stiles-Elliott

