Regular Council Meeting (Tuesday, October 8, 2024)
Generated by Dee Stiles-Elliott on Wednesday, October 9, 2024

City of Pullman
Council Minutes
City Council Chambers
190 SE Crestview Street
Pullman, WA 99163
7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, October 8, 2024
Members present
Mayor Francis Benjamin, Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric
Fejeran, Carla De Lira, and Trymaine Gaither.
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m.
A. Call to Order, Roll Call
B. Announcements
Mayor Benjamin made six announcements.
C. Community Comments
William, a member of the Palouse community, expressed concerns about Councilmember
De Lira's involvement with Palouse Democratic Socialites of America, accusing them of
harassing the Jewish community.
D. City Councilmember Comments
Councilmember Fejeran reminded everyone that October 28, 2024, is the last day to
register to vote or update your address before election day.
Councilmember Parks reminded the community that October is Domestic Violence
Awareness Month.
Councilmember Wright corrected Mayor Benjamin’s announcements, pointing out that the
open house will be held on Tuesday, October 22, not Thursday, as the Mayor had
announced.
Councilmember Guido thanked the community members who attended the Home
Ownership Resource Fair.
Councilmember De Lira addresses William's concerns, clarifying her affiliations and
emphasizing the importance of respectful conversations about the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict.
Councilmember De Lira read a statement acknowledging the anniversary of the Israeli Hamas war that began on October 7, 2023.
Councilmember Weller thanked everyone who supported Ruck the Fallen for a local
firefighter. There will be a future Ruck the Fallen for Veterans Park.
E. Mayor's Comments
Mayor Benjamin proclaimed October 6, 2024, through October 12, 2024, as Fire
Prevention Week.
Mayor Benjamin announced Fire Prevention Week, with the theme "Smoke Alarms Make
Them Work for You," a family-friendly event on October 12 at Wal-Mart.

F. Committee, Commission, Board Reports
Ned Warnick, Historic Preservation Commission Chair, presented the commission’s
history, legal basis, and recent activities. Mr. Warnick stated that the commission has
listed 17 properties on the local register and reviewed three special tax valuations.
G. City Council and Mayor Future Regular Agenda Requests
Councilmember Guido made a motion to request that the Moscow Housing Trust be
invited to present an overview of what a housing trust means and how a community land
trust works to the council. Councilmember Fejeran seconded the motion.
H. Community Comments on Final Action Items for this Agenda
Downtown Business Owner Chris Chandler raised concerns about the cost and feasibility
of right-of-way sidewalk permits, emphasizing the high liability and cost for businesses.
Eileen McCall criticized the decision-making process for right-of-way permits, arguing
that it should involve more city staff and the council.
I. Confirmation of Appointments
There were no confirmations.
J. Presentations
Attorney John Wolf with the Northwest Justice Project presented on the organization's
services, including housing, consumer protection, family law, and public benefits.
Community Partners Alternative to Violence of the Palouse and Community Action Center
refers cases to the Northwest Justice Project for community assistance. The primary
contact for legal aid is through the CLEAR hotline at 1-888-201-1014 to determine if a
person is eligible for assistance.
K. Consent Agenda.
The items listed under the consent agenda are considered to be routine in nature
and will be enacted by a single motion of the City Council without separate
discussion.
Action: 1. A motion to read the Consent Agenda by title only.
Motion by Ann Parks, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
L. Consent Agenda items
Action (Consent): 1.
A motion to dispense with the reading of the September 24, 2024, regular
meeting minutes and approve them as submitted.
Action (Consent): 2.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
20112659 through 20112660 totaling $770,455.87
Action (Consent): 3.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
20112661 through 20112776 totaling $1,528,893.78

Action (Consent): 4.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Refund Checks Numbered 20112777
through 20112787 totaling $9895.64
Action (Consent): 5.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for ADP Payroll Transfers totaling
$12,862.98
Action (Consent): 6.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks; Electronic
Transfers; and ADP Payroll Transfers totaling $1,118,697.06
Action (Consent): 7.
A motion authorizing fire department staff to enter into a one-year contract with
Norco, Inc. for purchasing oxygen bottles used by the Fire Department.
Action (Consent): 8.
A motion authorizing a contract amendment with GMV Innovating Solutions
extending the contract for one year to provide Pullman Transit's fixed route
CAD/AVL system.
Action: 9.
A Motion to Ratify Change Order No. 4 to the Pullman Downtown Improvements
contract.
Action (Consent): 10.
A motion authorizing the award of a Lodging Tax Grant to the City of Pullman for
the Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport Terminal Project.
Action (Consent), Resolution: 11.
RESOLUTION NO. R-59-24 - A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR AND
THE FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES DIRECTOR TO EXECUTE A
LOCAL AGENCY AGREEMENT SUPPLEMENT NO. 1 AND AN UPDATED
PROJECT
PROSPECTUS
FOR
THE
CITYWIDE
INTERSECTION
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT.
Mayor Benjamin asked the Council if they would like any consent agenda items removed
for further discussion.
Councilmember Parks requested consent agenda item number nine be removed for
further discussion.
Motion by Ann Parks, second by Eric Fejeran, to approve consent agenda items one,
two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, ten, and eleven as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither.
Councilmember Parks wanted to address the delay in the Downtown Pullman Project
and how it will affect the businesses. She encouraged everyone to patronize our local
businesses as much as possible to help them through the project's final phase.

Councilmember Gaither asked for clarification on the project's budget source related to
the change orders, as he wanted the community to know where the funds are coming
from.
Mayor Benjamin stated that the city has not identified where the funds would come
from, as staff is trying to find the cause of the soil contamination.
A Motion to Ratify Change Order No. 4 to the Pullman Downtown Improvements
contract.
Motion by Ann Parks, second by Eric Fejeran.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
M. Public Hearing
There was not a Public Hearing.
N. Regular Agenda
The proposed amendments to Pullman City Code 11.28, Obstructions to Streets and
Sidewalks, are designed to streamline the permitting process for businesses intending to
resume or begin outdoor seating.
Due to contract restrictions and liabilities issues, any new permits on Main Street cannot
be effective before Project Downtown Pullman is completed in full.
The three most notable changes to the amended code section 11.28 are that the Mayor,
rather than the City Engineer, is responsible for the final approval of permits; the required
deposit has been removed; and the permit fee schedule is set by resolution. This is
consistent with other fee schedules across the organization.
Action, Ordinance: 1.
ORDINANCE NO. 24-09 - AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF PULLMAN, WHITMAN COUNTY, WASHINGTON, AMENDING
PULLMAN CITY CODE SECTION 11.28, AND ORDINANCE NOS. A-226 §5
(1953), A-964 §18 (1971), 81-68 §1 (1981), AND 99-39 §2 (1999), AND OTHER
MATTERS RELATED PROPERLY THERETO.
Councilmember Gaither moved to table this agenda item. Councilmember De Lira
seconded the motion.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
The Council requested that staff collect input from downtown businesses, add an appeal
process, and research the feasibility of a flat-rate fee for right-of-way permits. This item
will be discussed at a future meeting.
Action, Resolution: 2.
RESOLUTION NO. R-60-24 -A RESOLUTION ADOPTING A FEE SCHEDULE
FOR PERMITS TO OCCUPY THE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
Councilmember Fejeran moved to table this agenda item. Councilmember Wright
seconded the motion.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither

O. Discussion Items
Discussion Items: 1.
Mayor & City Council Fall Open House/Town Hall Table Assignment Discussion
The Council discussed which table they would like to host at the upcoming October 22nd
Open House/Town Hall. The Council decided on the following assignments:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Future Bypass – Councilmember Parks
Repurpose In-Town Railways – Councilmember Fejeran
Housing – Councilmember Guido
Welcoming – Councilmember De Lira
Strategic Influence & Partnerships - Mayor Benjamin
Strategic Tourism – Councilmember Wright
Community Engagement – Councilmember Gaither
Economic Development – Councilmember Weller

P. New Business
Mayor Benjamin asked if any new business would come before the Council. There was
none.
Q. Executive Session
There was no executive session.
R. Adjournment
Action: 1.
A motion to adjourn the meeting.
Motion by Carla De Lira, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
The meeting adjourned at 8:38 p.m.
____________________________
City Clerk Dee Stiles-Elliott

