Regular Council Meeting (Tuesday, September 24, 2024)
Generated by Dee Stiles-Elliott on Wednesday, September 25, 2024

City of Pullman
Council Minutes
City Council Chambers
190 SE Crestview Street
Pullman, WA 99163
7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, September 24, 2024
Members present
Mayor Francis Benjamin, Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran,
Carla De Lira, and Trymaine Gaither.
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m.
A. Call to Order
1. Roll Call
B. Announcements
Mayor Benjamin made five announcements.
C. Community Comments
Michelle Kelly, owner of Michelle's Closet, discusses the impact of construction on downtown
businesses, noting a 70% decrease in sales for her business and similar struggles for other
businesses.
D. City Councilmember Comments
Councilmember Parks stated that Alternative to Violence of the Palouse would highlight
community activities and tabling events throughout October for Domestic Violence Awareness
Month.
Councilmember Guido reminded the public about the homeownership resource fair on October
5th. The fair will feature down payment assistance, financing, and more resources.
E. Mayor's Comments
Mayor Benjamin had no comments.
F. Committee, Commission, Board Reports
There were no reports.
G. City Council and Mayor Future Regular Agenda Requests
Councilmember Fejeran requested that the Whitman County Assessor be invited to a Pullman
Council meeting to explain the process of updating assessed property values and their impact
on property taxes. Councilmember Weller seconded the request.
Councilmember Fejeran also requested an invitation to Northwest Justice Project to present on
the services they offer to Pullman constituents, including free legal assistance for fundamental
human needs. Councilmember De Lira seconded the request.
H. Community Comments on Final Action Items for this Agenda
Business owners Sandy Castle del Conte and Michelle Kelly raised questions about the land
lease restrictions and the significant increase in lease fees.

Business owner Chris Chandler raised concerns about the lack of information and
communication regarding land leases.
Business owner Mitch Chandler stated that permits have never been required despite being in
business for over 50 years on Main Street.
I. Confirmation of Appointments
There were no confirmations.
J. Presentations
Presentations: 1. Financial Education
Finance Director Jeff Elbracht provided an educational presentation on funding cash balances,
explaining the importance of having a good cash balance for emergencies and capital
investments. He outlines the different designations for fund balances: non-spendable, restricted,
assigned, committed, and unassigned, and emphasizes the need for a healthy cash balance to
maintain operations and invest in capital projects.
Presentations: 2. 2024 Housing Legislation
Community Development Director RJ Lott provided an update on housing legislation, including
bills that passed, died, or are still in committee, such as HB 1998, HB 2321, HB 2375, and HB
1473. He highlights the importance of understanding the limitations imposed by the Growth
Management Act (GMA), of which Pullman is not a member.
K. Consent Agenda.
The items listed under the consent agenda are considered to be routine in nature and
will be enacted by a single motion of the City Council without separate discussion.
Action: 1. A motion to read the Consent Agenda by title only.
Motion by Ann Parks, second by Megan Guido.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
L. Consent Agenda items
Action (Consent), Minutes: 1.
A motion to dispense with the reading of the September 10, 2024 meeting minutes and
approve them as submitted.
Action (Consent): 2.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
20112498 through 20112596 totaling $774,333.23
Action (Consent): 3.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
20112597 through 20112658 totaling $1,324,628.56
Action (Consent): 4.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks; Electronic
Transfers; and ADP Payroll Transfers totaling $1,682,758.38

Mayor Benjamin asked the Council if they would like any consent agenda items removed for
further discussion. There were none.
Motion by Megan Guido, second by Eric Fejeran.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
M. Public Hearing
Public Hearing for 2025 Revenue Sources
Finance Director Jeff Elbracht explained that Chapter 251, Laws of 1995, codified as RCW
84.55.120, requires a public hearing on revenue sources for the coming year’s budget,
including possible increases in property tax revenues.
Property tax levies are set annually and recorded with the Whitman County Assessor on or
before November 30th of each calendar year, as per RCW 84.52.070.
As per the schedule adopted at the June 11, 2024, City Council meeting, the City Council will
set the 2024 property tax levies on November 12, 2024.
Additional consideration regarding the Implicit Price Deflator (IPD) is not required for 2025. For
cities with over 10,000 population, property taxes can be raised by 1% plus new construction or
the IPD plus new construction. The annual date of record for the IPD is September 25th. The
projected IPD rate is 2.6% and is not anticipated to fall below 1% before the official date of
record, which falls after this agenda item is published. As per RCW 84.55.0101, when the IPD
falls below 1%, cities can adopt a resolution or ordinance of "substantial need" and levy the full
1% if it is documented that an increase in services costs is more than the current factor. Based
on these conditions, additional consideration regarding a resolution or ordinance declaring a
"substantial need" concerning the IPD is not required for 2025.
Mayor Benjamin opened the public hearing at 7:57 p.m. for public comments on the
City of Pullman 2025 Revenue Sources. There were no comments. Mayor Benjamin closed
the public hearing at 7:57 p.m.
At 7:57 p.m., Mayor Benjamin adjourned the regular meeting of the Pullman City Council and
convened the special meeting of the Metropolitan Parks District.
At 8:00 p.m., Mayor Benjamin adjourned the special meeting of the Metropolitan Parks District
and convened the special meeting of the Transportation Benefit District.
At 8:33 p.m., Mayor Benjamin adjourned the special meeting of the Transportation Benefit
District and reconvened the regular meeting of the Pullman City Council.
N. Regular Agenda
Action, Resolution, Regular Agenda: 1.
Community Development Director RJ Lott explained as Project Downtown Pullman nears
completion, the City of Pullman will begin accepting applications beginning on October 1, 2024,
for new land leases from businesses on Main Street. Completing these applications remains
unchanged and still requires City Council approval. The City Council would approve new land
leases after October 15, 2024, utilizing the new fee schedule. Due to contract restrictions and
liabilities issues, any new land leases on Main Street cannot be effective before Project
Downtown Pullman is fully completed. The City Council may change fees for land leases and
renewals with a fee change resolution.
The current formula for calculating lease agreement fees is requested square feet multiplied by
$0.50 multiplied by the current Consumer Price Index (CPI) divided by the CPI of June 2014.
The proposed resolution simplifies and streamlines the fee to $250.00 for the initial application

and $200 for each subsequent year the lease is in place. This fee is intended for "sidewalk cafes"
or "sidewalk seating" not to exceed 250 square feet.
RESOLUTION NO. R-58-24 - A RESOLUTION ADOPTING A FEE SCHEDULE FOR
LAND LEASES EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 15, 2024.
Councilmember Fejeran moved to table this agenda item until the October 8, 2024 Council
meeting. Councilmember Wright seconded the motion.
City Staff will return to the October 8, 2024, council meeting with revisions to the fee schedule,
using cities in our region as a comparison, as requested by the Council.
Action: 2. 2025 City of Pullman Legislative Priorities
A motion to adopt the 2025 City of Pullman’s Draft Legislative Priorities.
Councilmember De Lira requested additional language be added for Washington College
Grants and Post Secondary Basic Needs Act.
Motion by Megan Guido, second by Pat Wright with the amendments made by Councilmember
De Lira.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
O. Discussion Items
Discussion Items: 1.
NEXT STEPS REGARDING VACANT COMMERCIAL SPACES, PROPOSED CODE
SECTION 17.XX.
Community Development Director RJ Lott explained that the city council aims to regulate vacant
commercial spaces in the C-2 Central Business District. This agenda item was most recently
discussed on the June 11th and June 25th City Council agendas on vacant commercial spaces.
City staff completed a draft ordinance on vacant commercial spaces, as discussed by the City
Council. The only consensus on an item to change from the June 25th Council meeting was in
section 17.XX.050(A), which changed the registration period for a commercial building in this
zone from ten (10) calendar days to ten (10) business days.
Following significant research and drafting efforts, staff remains concerned that the draft
ordinance exceeds the City's scope of authority and that its vulnerability to legal scrutiny will
eclipse its intended objective. The existing City nuisance provisions address the vacant building
safety and health issues. Enforcement-related staff capacity and budget impacts have not been
fully assessed but are expected to be significant.
Staff is seeking guidance from the City Council on content and next steps. If the City Council
elects to proceed, the next step would be a public hearing before the Planning Commission at a
regularly scheduled meeting. After the public hearing, the Planning Commission will adopt its
recommendation for the City Council's final consideration.
After a lengthy discussion about enforcement and the scope of the Council’s authority, the
Council unanimously agreed to discontinue staff work on the vacant building ordinance.
P. New Business
Mayor Benjamin asked if any new business would come before the Council. There was none.
Q. Executive Session

There was no executive session.
R. Adjournment
Action, Motions: 1. A motion to adjourn the regular meeting of Pullman City Council.
Motion by Pat Wright, second by Nathan Weller.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
The meeting adjourned at 9:44 p.m.
____________________________
City Clerk Dee Stiles-Elliott

