Regular Council Meeting (Tuesday, June 25, 2024)
Generated by Dee Stiles-Elliott on Wednesday, June 26, 2024

City of Pullman
Council Minutes
City Council Chambers
190 SE Crestview Street
Pullman, WA 99163
7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, June 25, 2024
Members present
Mayor Francis Benjamin, Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric
Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m.
A. Roll Call
B. Announcements
Mayor Benjamin made four announcements.
C. Community Comments
Several members from Pullman for Palestine and the Palouse Democratic Socialist of
America demanded the City Council adopt a Palestine - Israel cease-fire resolution.
Several residents opposed the cease-fire resolution, feeling it would divide the
community.
D. City Councilmember Comments
The majority of the Council expressed their concerns about the divisive Resolution and
stated they could not support it.
E. Mayor’s Comments
Mayor Benjamin thanked the community for their concerns and comments.
F. Committee, Commission, Board Reports
Councilmember Weller presented the board report for the Palouse Basin Aquifer
committee.
G. City Council and Mayor Future Regular Agenda Requests
There were no requests.
H. Community Comments on Final Action Items for this Agenda
There were no comments.
I. Confirmation of Appointments
There were no appointments.
J. Presentations

Finance Director Jeff Elbracht presented how public entities use different funds for
different revenues and expenditures and the rules behind each fund.
K. Consent Agenda.
The items listed under the consent agenda are considered to be routine in nature
and will be enacted by a single motion of the City Council without separate
discussion.
Action: 1. A motion to read the Consent Agenda by title only.
Motion by Eric Fejeran, second by Nathan Weller.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
L. Consent Agenda items
Action (Consent), Minutes: 1.
A motion to dispense with the reading of the June 11, 2024, regular meeting
minutes and approve them as submitted.
Action (Consent): 2.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
20111652 through 20111705 totaling $713,051.31
Action (Consent): 3.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks, Electronic
Transfers, and ADP Payroll Transfers totaling $1,778,467.35
Action (Consent): 4.
A motion authorizing the pre-authorization for Airport Improvement Program
Grants No. 70 and 71.
Action (Consent): 5.
A motion to authorize the purchase of hardware, software, and professional
services for Cisco Nexus core switches on state contract
Action (Consent): 6.
A motion to authorize a Lodging Tax Grant to the Pullman Chamber of
Commerce and Visitor Center for an amount of up to $12,000.00 for a
Promotional Video Series in Cooperation with Cougs First!
Action (Consent): 7.
A motion to authorize the execution of a Memorandum of Understanding between
the City of Pullman, the Port of Whitman County, and the Washington State
Department of Transportation regarding Lot 4 of the Port of Whitman County
Industrial Park Subdivision No. 2.
Mayor Benjamin asked the Council if they would like any consent agenda items
removed for further discussion. There were none.
Motion by Ann Parks, second by Megan Guido, to approve consent agenda items one
through seven as presented.

Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
M. Public Hearing
Transit Manager Wayne Thompson explained that all public transit agencies in the state
must submit a six-year transit development plan (TDP) annually to the Washington State
Department of Transportation (WSDOT). The TDP is commonly paired with an agency’s
annual report, which measures local transit systems’ performance and plans. The
information becomes part of the WSDOT Public Transportation Division’s annual report,
presented to the State Legislature, and referenced during policy and funding decisions.
A condition of submittal is that the plan is presented, and the opportunity for discussion
is provided in a public forum. This public hearing will allow the City Council and
community to consider Pullman Transit’s TDP.
Mayor Benjamin opened the public hearing at 8:30 p.m.
There were no Council or public comments.
Mayor Benjamin closed the public hearing at 8:30 p.m.
N. Regular Agenda
City Administrator Mike Urban explained that on May 14, 2024, the Pullman City Council
ratified the 2024-2026 Labor Agreement with the International Association of Fire Fighters
Local 1892. The change in compensation for the members of the labor organization has
created upward compression with the non-union managers of the Fire Chief and two
Assistant Fire Chiefs.
As with past practice, the City Council regularly tries to address compression issues after
labor contract settlement and subsequent financial analysis. This agenda item captures
the financial analysis and presents an associated budget amendment to address this
compression issue.
Action, Ordinance: 1.
ORDINANCE NO. 24-08 - AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 22-25
ADOPTED NOVEMBER 29, 2022, AND ENTITLED “AN ORDINANCE
ADOPTING A BIENNIAL BUDGET FOR THE CITY OF PULLMAN FOR THE
BIENNIUM 2023-2024” - RELATING TO THE RATIFICATION OF THE 2024-2026
INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF FIREFIGHTERS LOCAL 1892 UNION
COLLECTIVE
BARGAINING
AGREEMENT
AND
SUBSEQUENT
COMPRESSION TO SALARIES AS IT AFFECTS FIRE DEPARTMENT CHIEF
AND ASSISTANT CHIEFS.
Motion by Nathan Weller, second by Eric Fejeran.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
Community Development Director RJ Lott explained City Staff submitted Capital
Improvement Program (CIP) project proposals for the years 2025-2030, which were
aggregated and summarized in the attached memo from Community Development
Director RJ Lott, Finance Director Jeff Elbracht, and City Administrator Mike Urban dated
April 8, 2024.
On May 8, 2024, the CIP Committee met to consider various funding requests and
prepare a draft CIP for 2025-2030. This year’s committee members are Councilmebers
Eric Fejeran and Pat Wright, Planning Commission members Joe O’Callaghan and
Angela Taylor, and Citizen at Large Devon Felsted.

On May 22, 2024, the Pullman Planning Commission met to review the CIP and the
Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) for 2025-2030. After discussing the draft
CIP, the Commission voted unanimously to find the draft CIP consistent with the
Comprehensive Plan, as presented.
The Planning Commission reviews and
recommends to the City Council the proposed CIP related to land use or the
Comprehensive Plan.
On June 11, 2024, the City Council held a public hearing on the CIP. Testimony was
received regarding projects related to the Fire Department.
City Staff recommends adopting the Six-Year Capital Improvement Program for 20252030 as presented.
Action, Resolution: 2.
RESOLUTION NO. R-38-24 - A RESOLUTION APPROVING A SIX-YEAR
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM FOR THE CITY OF PULLMAN FOR
CALENDAR YEARS 2025 THROUGH 2030.
Motion by Ann Parks, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
Community Development Director RJ Lott explained that the Six-Year Transportation
Improvement Program (TIP) is a yearly planning document that lists proposed Transit
Division purchases/projects and the planned transportation projects. As funding is
secured for TIP projects, they are then submitted to the Washington State Department of
Transportation (WSDOT) for inclusion into the Statewide Transportation Improvement
Program (STIP). The STIP is then used by the Federal Highway Administration and the
Federal Transit Administration to approve federally funded projects.
This year’s TIP for the years 2025 through 2030 is attached for Council’s consideration.
Arterial street projects are proposed to be funded with grants from the Transportation
Improvement Board, the Washington State Department of Transportation, the Federal
Surface Transportation Program, and locally received arterial gas taxes. Transit projects
are proposed to be funded with Federal Transit Administration grants, WSDOT grants,
State Rural Mobility grants, and Transit Fund reserves. The cost for all 2025-2023
projects is $83,423,969.
Attached for reference are the projects included in the proposed TIP. Upon Council
approval, the TIP will be appropriately formatted on the STIP form and submitted to
WSDOT as appropriate.
On May 8, 2024, the TIP Committee met to consider various funding requests for 20252030. The TIP Committee voted unanimously to recommend approval of the TIP as
presented.
The Planning Commission considered the TIP at their May 22, 2024 meeting and found
it consistent with the City’s Comprehensive Plan. The Planning Commission voted
unanimously to recommend approval of the TIP as presented. The Arterial Streets and
Transit projects in the TIP are also included in the City’s Capital Improvement Plan (CIP).
No written or oral testimony was received at the public hearing on June 11, 20224. City
Staff recommends the City Council adopt the Six Year Transformation Improvement
Program for 2025-2030, as presented.
Action, Resolution: 3.

RESOLUTION NO. R-39-24 - A RESOLUTION APPROVING A SIX-YEAR
TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM FOR THE CITY OF PULLMAN
FOR CALENDAR YEARS 2025 THROUGH 2030.
Motion by Pat Wright, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
Fire Marshal Darren Jones explained that City Code Chapter 3.16 authorizes the City
Council to set fire-related permit fees. According to the City Code, permit fees are to be
reviewed every three (3) years, and they were last reviewed and adjusted in November
of 2021. The Fire Department has recently reviewed and updated the fire-related permit
fees based on factors such as the project’s square footage and the size of the
suppression systems. The fee schedule is for two types of Fire Department permits:
Construction and Operational. The review was timely as the 2021 Washington State Fire
Code was just adopted and went into effect in March 2024. The 2021 Fire Code had
many changes to the fire permits, including twenty-three (23) additional construction
permits and updates to cover fifty-four (54) allowable operational fire permits. The fees
were updated to reflect the current economic state and the future economic forecast for
the next three (3) years. The updated fee structure lets us better capture the staff time
necessary to review, approve, and inspect commercial projects.
Action, Resolution: 4.
RESOLUTION NO. R-40-24 - A RESOLUTION ADOPTING A FEE SCHEDULE
FOR FIRE PERMITS IN ACCORDANCE WITH PULLMAN CITY CODE
CHAPTER 3.16 INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE, RESCINDING RESOLUTION R54-21 AND OTHER MATTERS PROPERLY RELATED THERETO.
Motion by Eric Fejeran, second by Megan Guido.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
Public Works Director Sean Wells explained that a small works roster is a list of

qualified, licensed contractors utilized by contracting agencies, such as
Pullman, for small public works construction projects costing $350,000 or
less. The small works roster process is a popular procurement tool that
Pullman already uses now. It is a less restrictive and more efficient selection
process for small public works projects than a complete, formal, competitive bid
process for large public works projects.
In 2000, the Washington State Legislature changed chapter 39.04 of the
Revised Code of Washington (RCW), establishing $200,000 as the upper
threshold for the small works roster contract amount. In 2004, Pullman
amended Pullman City Code (PCC) Chapter 1.107 to the same $200,000
threshold to reflect and be consistent with the RCW threshold. Since then, the
Legislature has changed the Chapter 39.04 RCW threshold twice, the latest in
2019, to $350,000. Pullman has not changed its threshold since 2004, as it
remains at $200,000.
In 2023, the Washington State Legislature found a need to increase equity and
efficiencies in public works procurement. Public works contracting agencies
needed a streamlined and effective method for delivering small public works
projects while protecting workers’ rights. The Legislature updated and revised
the small and limited works roster process to increase administrative efficiency
and to encourage greater participation and utilization by small, minority, women,

and veteran-owned businesses. As such, the Legislature adopted Senate Bill
5268, which affected Public Works Procurement provisions within various
locations of the Revised Code of Washington. These changes in state law will
become effective July 1, 2024.
“Consulting services” are professional services with a primarily intellectual
output or product and include architectural and engineering (A/E) services as
defined in RCW 39.80.020. The City maintains a Consulting Services Roster
of A/E firms and other professional services such as design, planning,
management, legal, communications, and environmental consulting. The
requirement for Pullman to maintain this is specified in RCW 39.80.
Selecting A/E consultants through this process requires Pullman to have
established a qualifications-based selection procedure. Under that process,
Pullman assesses the expertise of competing firms and selects the most highly
qualified firm, then negotiates the final project scope and associated fee. If
Pullman and the most highly qualified firm cannot agree on project scope,

schedule, and budget, then Pullman can negotiate with the next most highly qualified
firm. Advanced notification of a need for an A/E service must be provided via legal
advertisement for a given need or solicitation for a consultant roster.
The MRSC has established a Consulting Services Roster that Pullman must utilize when
Pullman uses the Small Works Roster. Pullman is not allowed to use one without the
other. MRSC Rosters provides all of the roster maintenance established by State law.
POLICY AND FISCAL IMPACTS
The proposed Resolution now before the Council accomplishes the following:
Allows the City to contract with MRSC to have the City’s official rosters hosted in
the online database for City use for small public works contracts and consulting
services developed and maintained by MRSC through MRSC Rosters. Using
MRSC Rosters is required to comply with the changes in State law as adopted by
Senate Bill 5268.

•

•

Small Works Roster:
Clarifies the procedures for small works roster usage, according to RCW
39.04.155.
o Raises the upper threshold for small works to coincide with the thresholds
established in RCW 39.04.155, which is $350,000. Any public works
project over that threshold must comply with public bidding rules and
cannot use the small works roster processes.
o Raises the previous “limited public works” threshold of $50,000 and
replaces it with a new threshold of $150,000
o Allows for direct contracting under certain conditions. Pullman will notify
all contractors in the roster category for projects estimated at $150,000$350,000.
o Delegates authority to the Mayor to award bids for public works projects
costing less than or equal to $350,000 and retains authority for the City
Council to award bids for public works projects over $350,000.
o

•

Consulting Services Roster:
o
o
o

Clarifies that the Consulting Services Roster is allowed for A/E services
that are not subject to public bidding requirements.
Establishes an effective process for reviewing and selecting Statement of
Qualifications Proposals.
Delegates authority to the Mayor to award bids or quotations for A/E
services costing less than or equal to $350,000 and retains authority for

the City Council to award bids or quotations for A/E services over
$350,000.
Resolution No. R-41-24 conflicts with certain sections of Pullman City Code 1.107. City
Staff is working to create concurrence while reviewing PCC 1.107. If approved, staff will
have an ordinance with recommended updates for consideration at the next Council
Meeting Agenda.
Action, Resolution: 5.
RESOLUTION NO. R-41-24 - A RESOLUTION ON THE SUBJECTS OF
ESTABLISHING A SMALL PUBLIC WORKS ROSTER PROCESS TO AWARD
PUBLIC WORKS CONTRACTS AND A CONSULTING SERVICES ROSTER FOR
ARCHITECTURAL, ENGINEERING, AND OTHER PROFESSIONAL SERVICES.
Motion by Megan Guido, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
O. Discussion Items
Discussion Items: 1.
A CONTINUED DISCUSSION REGARDING VACANT COMMERCIAL SPACES,
PROPOSED CODE SECTION 17. XX.
Community Development Director RJ Lot explained that this agenda item is a continuation
of the discussion on vacant commercial spaces from the June 11th City Council agenda.
Regulation of vacant commercial spaces is a goal of the City Council.
City Staff created a draft of the Ordinance on Vacant Commercial Spaces as discussed
by the City Council. City Staff requests additional clarification on several items in the draft
Ordinance, and an additional discussion will be needed to create a fee schedule and a
Resolution adopting the fee schedule.
Discussion Items: 2.
Discussion - Cease-Fire Resolution Provided by the Palouse Democratic
Socialists of America
Councilmember De Lira expressed her desire to create a cease-fire resolution from
scratch with input from the Council.
Councilmember Fejeran suggested having stakeholders at the table when creating a
resolution.
Councilmember Weller agreed to have an open mind and is willing to read the new
cease-fire resolution representing both sides.
Councilmember Parks expressed her concern for city workers, their families, and their
safety if a cease-fire resolution is adopted because the Resolution represents the City.
Mayor Benjamin warned the Council when discussing a workgroup to work on the
cease-fire resolution. No more than three Councilmembers can be together when
working. If there are over three, that would be a quorum, and the meeting would need
to be appropriately posted and advertised.
Mayor Benjamin also reminded the Council that the City’s legal counsel stated he did
not feel he was versed explicitly in this to be able to verify a cease-fire resolution.

City Administrator Mike Urban explained that the City would take no part if
Councilmember de Lira chose to work on a cease-fire resolution. Working on the
cease-fire resolution without city staff being permitted to help would be a personal
decision.
Councilmember Gaither stated he believes the war in Gaza is a human rights and civil
issue. He supports a cease-fire resolution representing both sides that values the
sacredness and preciousness of all human life.
Mayor Benjamin advised that if Councilmember de Lira chose to take on this task to
create a cease-fire resolution, the Council would have to choose a goal or priority to
remove from the newly adopted Goals & Priorities.
P. New Business
There was no new business to come before the Council.
Q. Executive Session
There was not an Executive Session.
R. Adjournment
A motion to adjourn the Regular Meeting of Pullman City Council.
Motion by Eric Fejeran, second by Nathan Weller.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
The meeting adjourned at 10:13 p.m.

______________________________
City Clerk Dee Stiles-Elliott

