Regular Council Meeting (Tuesday, June 11, 2024)
Generated by Dee Stiles-Elliott on Wednesday, June 12, 2024

City of Pullman
Council Minutes
City Council Chambers
190 SE Crestview Street
Pullman, WA 99163
7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, June 11, 2024
Members present
Mayor Francis Benjamin, Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine
Gaither
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m.
A. Call to Order
Action: 1. Roll Call
A motion to excuse Councilmember Guido and Councilmember Weller
Motion by Ann Parks, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
B. Announcements
Mayor Benjamin made five announcements.
C. Community Comments
Seven members of the Palouse Democratic Socialists of America asked the City Council to
adopt their resolution calling for a cease-fire in the war between Israel and Gaza.
Two Pullman residents opposed the cease-fire resolution, feeling it would divide the
community.
D. City Councilmember Comments
Councilmember Fejeran suggested that the cease-fire resolution be placed on a future agenda
as a discussion item and thanked the Pullman community for their support at the June 1st Pride
Celebration.
Councilmember Parks thanked the audience for sharing their comments and agreed a ceasefire conversation should be had; however, she doesn’t believe that the City Council as a body
can effect change nationally.
Councilmember Wright stated that the Council must serve most of its constituents and that not
everyone will be pleased, but she doesn’t think the cease-fire resolution represents all residents
of Pullman.
Councilmember De Lira stated that as a public official, she must bring forward what the
community members care about, and to bring the cease-fire resolution back for further
discussion would show solidarity.
Councilmember Gaither thanked the audience for attending the council meeting and sharing
their thoughts; however, he believes the cease-fire resolution creates a perception of
partisanship that is inappropriate to the local nonpartisan government.

E. Mayor’s Comments
Mayor Benjamin thanked the audience for bringing their thoughts and concerns before the
Council; however, he doesn’t believe that the cease-fire resolution has a place in local
government. Every citizen of Pullman needs to feel welcome and that Pullman is their home.
The cease-fire resolution picks winners and losers, and he will not support the proposed
resolution.
F. Committee, Commission, Board Reports
There were no reports.
G. City Council and Mayor Future Regular Agenda Requests
Councilmember De Lira moved, and Councilmember Fejeran seconded to have the cease-fire
resolution on the June 25, 2024, council agenda as a discussion item.
Councilmember Fejeran asked that the Whitman County Elections office present at a future
meeting about our election process. Councilmember De Lira seconded the request.
H. Community Comments on Final Action Items for this Agenda
Community member and business owner Jandi Utzman urged the Council to approve the
lodging tax grants presented on the consent agenda.
I. Confirmation of Appointments
There was no confirmation of appointments.
J. Presentations
Presentations: 1. Pullman Wayfinding

K. Consent Agenda.
Action: 1.
A motion to read the Consent Agenda by title only.
Motion by Pat Wright, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
L. Consent Agenda items
Action (Consent): 1.
A motion to dispense with the reading of the May 7, 2024, special meeting minutes and
approve them as submitted.
Action (Consent): 2.
A motion to dispense with the reading of the May 14, 2024 meeting minutes and
approve them as submitted.
Action (Consent): 3.
A motion to dispense with the reading of the May 21, 2024 meeting minutes and
approve them as submitted.

Action (Consent): 4.
A motion setting June 25, 2024, as the date to hold a public hearing to consider the sixyear Transit Development Plan for 2024-2029 and the 2023 Transit Annual Report for
the City of Pullman.
Action (Consent), Motion: 5.
A Motion to Ratify Change Order No. 3 to the Pullman Downtown Improvements
contract.
Action (Consent): 6.
A motion to authorize a Lodging Tax Grant to Palouse Summer Series for an amount up
to $49,735.00 for the Palouse Summer Series.
Action (Consent): 7.
A motion to authorize a Lodging Tax Grant to the Pullman Chamber of Commerce for
an amount up to $8887.00 for the 2024 3 Forks River and Arts Festival (3FRAF)
Action (Consent): 8.
A motion to authorize a Lodging Tax Grant to Promote Pullman LLC for an amount up to
$3,000.00 for the Summertime Shop then Savor.
Action (Consent): 9.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
20111435 through 20111531 totaling $2,799,142.20
Action (Consent): 10.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
20111532 through 20111602 totaling $252,403.38
Action (Consent): 11.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
20111603 through 20111651 totaling $2,464,632.51
Action (Consent): 12.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
201112024 through 201112076 totaling $1,291,282.77
Action (Consent): 13.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks, Electronic
Transfers, and ADP Payroll Transfers totaling $1,136,592.50
Action (Consent): 14.
A Motion to Adopt the 2025-2026 Biennial Budget Schedule
Action (Consent), Resolution: 15.
RESOLUTION NO. R-35-24 - A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING A PUBLIC SIDEWALK
EASEMENT GRANTED BY BT PULLMAN, LLC, AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF
SAID EASEMENT AND PROVIDING FOR OTHER MATTERS PROPERLY RELATED
THERETO.

Mayor Benjamin asked the Council if they would like any consent agenda items removed for
further discussion. There were none.
Motion by Eric Fejeran, second by Carla De Lira, to approve consent agenda items one
through fifteen as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
M. Public Hearing
Community Development Director RJ Lott explained City Staff submitted Capital Improvement
Plan (CIP) project proposals for 2025-2030, aggregated and summarized by Community
Development Director RJ Lott, Finance Director Jeff Elbracht, and City Administrator Mike
Urban.
On May 8, 2024, the CIP Committee met to consider various funding requests and prepare a
draft CIP for 2025-2030. This year’s committee members are Councilmebers Eric Fejeran and
Pat Wright, Planning Commission members Joe O’Callaghan and Angela Taylor, and Citizen at
Large Devon Felsted.
On May 22, 2024, the Pullman Planning Commission met to review the CIP and the
Transportation Improvement Plan (TIP) for 2025-2030. The Planning Commission reviews and
recommends to the City Council the proposed CIP related to land use or the Comprehensive
Plan. After discussing the draft CIP, the Commission voted unanimously to find it consistent
with the Comprehensive Plan.
An updated schedule accompanies this year’s CIP/TIP, allowing the City to accommodate
better the reporting regulations and requirements of the TIP to the State of Washington. Within
30 days of adoption, the TIP must be filed with the State Secretary of Transportation. The State
of Washington requires that the TIP be filed by July 1 each year. Looking ahead to the next
CIP/TIP work cycle for 2026-2031, staff intends to keep the same schedule as in 2024,
maintaining a standardized process and keeping within the mandatory reporting requirements.
Public Hearing: 1.
A PUBLIC HEARING ON A PROPOSED SIX-YEAR CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT
PROGRAM FOR THE CITY OF PULLMAN FOR CALENDAR YEARS 2025 THROUGH
2030.
Mayor Benjamin opened the public hearing at 8:16 p.m.
Pullman Firefighters Union Vice President Reed McPherson expressed the union’s concerns
with the current CIP plan that calls for a bond for two large capital projects going out to vote in
two years. The union feels this is poor planning, and they recommend having both projects go
to the voters simultaneously.
Mayor Benjamin closed the public hearing at 8:18 p.m.
Community Development Director RJ Lot explained the Transportation Improvement Program
is a subset of the Capital Improvement Program and goes through the same process as the
CIP. One important note is that there is a timeline for submitting this to the State Department
of Transportation, which is July 1, following RCW 35.77 010.
Public Hearing: 2.
A PUBLIC HEARING FOR THE SIX-YEAR TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT
PROGRAM FOR THE CITY OF PULLMAN FOR CALENDAR YEARS 2025 THROUGH
2030.
Mayor Benjamin opened the public hearing at 8:20 p.m.
There were no comments.

Mayor Benjamin closed the public hearing at 8:20 p.m.
N. Regular Agenda
Parks & Facilities Director Kurt Dahmen explained on March 19, staff solicited proposals from
qualified consulting firms with experience and expertise in preparing a Parks, Recreation, and
Open Space (PROS) Plan. The PROS Plan document will update the Parks & Recreation
Department’s most recent Comprehensive Five-Year Plan, adopted in February 2020. The
document must fulfill the planning eligibility requirements for park and recreation plans set by
the State of Washington Recreation & Conservation Office.
The project aims to produce an updated plan and guide the City in its management and
development of park properties and recreation programs for the next twenty years. The PROS
Plan will be based on the needs and values of Pullman’s citizens and will include six- and twentyyear capital improvements. The planning process will involve public involvement to educate and
engage the community about the future of the park, recreation, and community services. To
prepare the PROS Plan, a public involvement process will be used to gather opinions on needs
and requirements from community members, special advocate groups, and other stakeholders.
A comprehensive planning approach will be used to address the requirements of the PROS Plan
and deliver a living and working document that guides both short-term and long-term goals in a
financially sustainable and achievable manner. Specific tasks to be used to develop the PROS
Plan related to implementing specific action items are: Open and Communicated Public Process
(including no less than four visits to Pullman); Statistically Valid Survey; Demographic &
Recreation Trend Analysis; Existing & Future Facilities - Analysis of Levels of Service; Rank &
Prioritize Demand and Opportunities; Analysis of Programs and Services; and Action Plan &
PROS Plan Development.
The project will be performed on a cost-reimbursable basis with a not-to-exceed budget of
$123,800. Funding for this project will come from the Parks General Fund Budget and was
included in the City’s 2024 Capital Improvement Program. Work on the PROS Plan is expected
to begin in 3rd quarter of 2024 and be completed in Spring 2025.
Action, Resolution: 1.
RESOLUTION NO. R-36-24 - A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF A
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF PULLMAN AND
PROS CONSULTING, INC. FOR THE PURPOSE OF PROVIDING A PARKS,
RECREATION AND OPEN SPACE MASTER PLAN.
Motion by Ann Parks, second by Trymaine Gaither.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
Parks & Facilities Director Kurt Dahman explained the scope of the Pullman City Cemetery
Expansion 2024 project. The project consists of clearing and grubbing approximately 2.4 acres
of existing farmland, stripping topsoil, stockpiling topsoil, grading subgrade, constructing a new
gravel roadway, replacing topsoil, spreading compost and partial mixing into topsoil,
hydroseeding, installing erosion control blankets on steep slopes, and other incidental work
items necessary to create approximately 1.2 acres of new cemetery space that will specifically
accommodate future burial plots. The contract also includes, as an additive option, installing a
landscape irrigation system to serve the new cemetery expansion area.
Bids for this project were opened on May 30, 2024, with five proposals received. The low bidder
is East Slope Earthworks, LLC, with a base bid of $353,376.01 and an additive #1 bid of
$217,148.75. The Engineer’s Estimate for the base bid and additive #1 schedule is $324,836.19
and $174,798.00, respectively.
Based on budgetary constraints, staff recommends awarding the contract to the low bidder for
only the base bid work. With this approach, a complete landscape irrigation system can be

installed simultaneously or incrementally in phases as funding availability and demand for burial
plots dictate.
Funds from the Cemetery Improvement Fund and the Cemetery Project Fund will cover
expenses for this construction project.
Onsite work is expected to occur this summer/fall and be substantially complete by midNovember. The contract will not be accepted as physically complete and will remain open
beyond substantial completion until permanent site stabilization is achieved.
Action, Resolution: 2.
RESOLUTION NO. R-37-24 - A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING THE BASE BID OF EAST
SLOPE EARTHWORKS, LLC FOR THE PULLMAN CITY CEMETERY EXPANSION
2024 PROJECT AND AUTHORIZING EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THE
CONTRACT FOR SAID PROJECT.
Motion by Pat Wright, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
Action, Motion, Regular Agenda: 3.
Assistant Fire Chief Ryan Scharnhorst explained that the Fire Department staff recommended
approving the three-year contract with PSI for storing, using, and deploying their compact rapid
deployable towers (CRD). CRD units, also known as mini cell towers, augment ATT/FirstNet’s
wireless broadband network, exclusive to first responders. Fire Department staff, the City’s
Emergency Management, and Whitman County Emergency Management currently carry
FirstNet devices that connect to these units.
This equipment would help maintain
communications between emergency responders should the in-place networks fail from manmade or natural disasters.
The CRD units will also be available in the greater region as part of the contract. Outside
agencies could request FirstNet for these units to be deployed to their emerging incident, and
fire department staff would be responsible for the transportation and deployment of each unit.
Members from the fire department will deliver the unit within a 4-hour radius of Pullman. Once
operational, fire department members will return home. Expenses such as travel, wages,
benefits, per diem, and hotels are reimbursable through PSI. The reimbursement model is
similar to the Washington State All-Hazard Mobilization plan. The City would be made whole for
all expenses related to the deployment of the CRD. The fire department would store one to two
units, and they would be available for our local use at any time, such as during WSU football
games, Lentil Festival, or on the 4th of July.
The CRD units are ideal for our location and will secure communications for decision-makers
during an emergency. Each unit can fit into the back of a pickup truck or mount to a standard
receiver on most vehicles.
A motion to authorize staff to enter into a three-year contract with Public Safety Insights,
LLC, for fire department use and deployment at emergency incidents.
Motion by Pat Wright, second by Trymaine Gaither.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
Action, Motion: 4.
A Motion to Adopt Pullman City Council Goals & Priorities for 2024-2025
Motion by Eric Fejeran, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
O. Discussion Items

Discussion Items: 1. A DISCUSSION REGARDING VACANT COMMERCIAL SPACES.
Community Development Director RJ Lott stated that one of the goals established by the City
Council was to research and discuss the implementation of an ordinance regarding vacant
buildings. Staff presented initial findings to the City Council on September 13, 2022, and March
28, 2023, and asked for further direction on the goal. On March 28, 2023, a presentation on
vacant buildings was given to the City Council.
Since three members of the City Council took office after these previous discussions, city staff
felt it prudent to revisit some of the past discussions to ensure that a potential path forward was
in line with the current board.
The City of Pullman does currently have a nuisance ordinance addressing vacant buildings from
2007 that reads all vacant, unused, or unoccupied buildings and structures within the City that
are allowed to become or remain open to the entrance by unauthorized persons or the general
public, because of broken glass, missing, or open windows, or other openings, so that the same
may be used by vagrants or other persons detrimental to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the City.
The Council provided ideas and suggestions on what they would like to see in an ordinance
addressing vacant commercial spaces. Director Lott will return with a draft ordinance for the
Council’s review at a future meeting.
P. New Business
There was no new business to come before the Council.
Q. Executive Session
At 9:10 p.m. Mayor Benjamin announced at this time, the City Council will adjourn to an
Executive Session pursuant to RCW 42.30.110(1)(i), to discuss with legal counsel representing
the City matters relating to agency enforcement actions, or to discuss with legal counsel
representing the agency litigation to which the agency, the governing body, or a member acting
in an official capacity is a party when public knowledge regarding the discussion is likely to result
in an adverse legal or financial consequence to the agency; RCW 42.30.110(1)(i), to discuss
with legal counsel representing the City matters relating to agency enforcement actions or to
discuss with legal counsel representing the agency potential litigation concerning: (i) Litigation
that has been specifically threatened to which the agency, the governing body or a member
acting in an official capacity is, or is likely to become a party;(ii) Litigation that the agency
reasonably believes may be commenced by or against the agency, the governing body, or a
member acting in an official capacity; or (iii) Litigation or legal risks of a proposed action or
current practice that the agency has identified when public discussion of the litigation or legal
risks is likely to result in an adverse legal or financial consequence to the agency.
The Executive Session is expected to last approximately 15 minutes. If it becomes necessary
to extend the Executive Session, someone will return to announce the anticipated additional time
needed by the City Council.
The Council does not anticipate taking action following the Executive Session.
At 9:25 p.m., an announcement was made that the Council would extend their Executive
Session by an additional five minutes.
At 9:30 p.m., an announcement was made that the Council would extend its Executive Session
by an additional three minutes.
At 9:33 p.m., an announcement was made that the Council would extend its Executive Session
by an additional three minutes.
At 9:36 p.m., an announcement was made that the Council would extend its Executive Session
by an additional three minutes.

R. Adjournment
Mayor Benjamin asked for a motion to adjourn the regular meeting of Pullman City Council.
Motion by Pat Wright, second by Carla De Lira.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
The meeting adjourned at 9:39 p.m.

____________________________
City Clerk Dee Stiles-Elliott

