Tuesday, February 6, 2024
SPECIAL Council Meeting - Award Project Downtown- 12 PM Noon
NOTICE OF SPECIAL MEETING OF PULLMAN CITY COUNCIL
YOU AND EACH OF YOU ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED that I have called a special meeting of the Pullman
City Council to be held:
DATE: Tuesday, February 6, 2024
TIME: 12:00 p.m. Council Chambers; 190 SE Crestview Street; Building A
THE PURPOSE OF THE SPECIAL MEETING IS:
Award Project Downtown
DATED this 2nd day of February 2024.
Francis Benjamin, Mayor
*****************************************************
Virtual Option to Watch or Listen to a Pullman City Council Meeting:
*
Telephone: 1-855-200-4555
*
YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/c/CityofPullmanWA
City Council

A. City Council Order of Business
Subject :

1. Roll Call

Meeting :

Feb 6, 2024 - SPECIAL Council Meeting - Award
Project Downtown- 12 PM Noon

Category :

A. City Council Order of Business

Type :

Call to Order, Motion

Public Content
Mayor Francis Benjamin
Council Members:
Carla De Lira Ward 2
Eric Fejeran At-Large
Trymaine Gaither Ward 1
Megan Guido Ward 3
Ann Parks Ward 1
Nathan Weller Ward 2
Pat Wright Ward 3
This Special Meeting was initiated pursuant to RCW 42.30.080. The purpose of this

meeting is to award Project Downtown. This meeting is specific to the listed agenda
items only.

B. Public Comment
Subject :

1. Persons may comment on the agenda item that the
City Council will take final action at this Special Meeting

Meeting :

Feb 6, 2024 - SPECIAL Council Meeting - Award Project
Downtown- 12 PM Noon

Category :

B. Public Comment

Type :

C. Agenda
Subject :

1. RESOLUTION NO. R-08-24 A RESOLUTION
ACCEPTING THE BID OF APOLLO, INC. FOR THE
PULLMAN DOWNTOWN IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT
AND AUTHORIZING EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF
THE CONTRACT FOR SAID PROJECT.

Meeting :

Feb 6, 2024 - SPECIAL Council Meeting - Award Project
Downtown- 12 PM Noon

Category :

C. Agenda

Type :

Action, Resolution

Preferred Date :

Feb 06, 2024

Absolute Date :

Feb 06, 2024

Fiscal Impact :

Yes

Budget Source :

ARPA, Utility Funds, Stormwater Funds, and potentially
other funds if authorized by the City Council.

Recommended Action :

By motion, adopt the attached resolution awarding contract
23-10, Pullman Downtown Improvements, to Apollo, Inc. for
the base bid amount of $8,678,907.59 plus any bid
additives included in said motion.

Public Content
The scope of contract 23-10, Pullman Downtown Improvements, consists of the
improvement of East Main Street between N. Grand Avenue and SE Spring Street,
including water/sewer/storm mains, full road and sidewalk construction, traffic and
pedestrian signal construction, landscaping, and street furniture.
This project is a City Council Goal & Priority and is included in the Citys approved
Capital Improvement Program.
The project was originally advertised on October 18 and 25, 2023 with bids due on
November 30, 2023. However, no bids were submitted. Under City Council direction,
the project was then re-scoped to include a longer contract time to complete the work,
a higher incentive for early completion, and lower liquidated damages. The project
was re-advertised and bids for the re-scoped project were opened on January 25,

2024, with four proposals received. The low bidder was Apollo, Inc. with a base bid of
$8,678,907.59, which is 11% above the Engineers Estimate of $7,820,987.17. A copy
of the bid summary and bid tabulations are attached for reference.
The bid schedule also includes bid additives for benches, trash receptacles, bicycle
racks, raised planter boxes, wayfinding signage, and utility work at Pine Street Plaza
including stormwater and sanitary sewer improvements. The decision to include bid
additives was made at the City Council meeting of February 28, 2023, as there was a
concern at that time that there may not be enough funds to complete the work
identified in these bid additives, which could easily be split from the project and be
completed at a future date. The City can award any combination of bid additives, and
there is no obligation to award any of the bid additives.
The bid additive work at the Pine Street Plaza (bid additive no. 6 schedules A and B)
includes three alternates (A, B, and C) to choose from. These alternates were chosen
to provide options on how Pine Street Plaza is resurfaced (Alternate A-concrete,
Alternate B-new pavers, Alternate C-salvage and reinstall existing pavers) which is
necessary given the utility work proposed in the plaza.
A thorough review of the bid prices was completed by staff. Although higher than the
engineers estimate, a comparison with the other three bids confirms that the price
increases are reflective of the actual price to complete the project work. In summary,
the bid submitted by Apollo, Inc. is fair and representative of the project work.
The project is expected to begin construction as early as April 1, 2024, and Main
Street is expected to be fully open to traffic by October 15, 2024. If the Contractor
opens Main Street prior to October 15, 2024, they will earn an incentive of $5,000 per
day, up to a maximum possible incentive of 20 days. All work is expected to be
substantially completed by November 1, 2024, with physical completion expected by
November 22, 2024.
The project was proposed to be funded entirely using $9.5 million from the American
Rescue Plan Act (ARPA). To date, approximately $1.8 million have already been
spent on the project (survey, data collection, traffic analysis, preliminary design,
public engagement, project website and communications, final project design, bid
phase services, WSDOT review fees, and water meter costs to be supplied by the
City). The remaining $7.7 million ARPA balance will only cover a portion of the base
bid amount. In addition, project costs for construction management, construction
inspection, materials testing, contract administration, and public outreach must also
be considered. These are estimated at $1.15 million.
Additionally, Public Works staff advises City Council to consider including bid additive
6 (Pine Street Plaza utilities schedule A and B) with any contract award, because it
will replace both the sanitary sewer and stormwater pipes located within the plaza.
The existing 12-inch diameter stormwater pipe is undersized for anticipated
stormwater flows. A 24-inch diameter pipe is necessary to remove this existing

hydraulic bottleneck and help alleviate potential flooding concerns. Completing this
utility work at a later date is not preferred from a stormwater perspective, and will
provide unnecessary additional construction impacts and costs at a future time.
Attached to this agenda item is a potential project budget summary for reference.
After consultation with the Finance & Administrative Services Director, City
Administrator, and the Mayor, options for additional funding sources necessary to
move forward with awarding the contract to Apollo, Inc. have been identified. The use
of these resources would not negatively affect current City operations nor would they
unnecessarily delay planned projects. If the project is approved, any budget
amendments will be prepared and brought before City Council for further discussion
and final approval at a future City Council meeting.
Staff has prepared a resolution for City Council to authorize awarding Contract 23-10,
Pullman Downtown Improvement, to Apollo, Inc. However, the resolution has been
prepared to allow City Council flexibility to award any combination of bid additives.
Assuming City Council authorizes awarding the Contract, staff will return at a
subsequent City Council meeting with a Professional Services Agreement to provide
the necessary Construction Services mentioned this afternoon.
*Staff Contactfor this Agenda Item: Clayton Forsmann & Sean Wells
*ContactEmail: Clayton.Forsmann@Pullman-WA.gov& Sean.Wells@Pullman-WA.gov
File Attachments
RESOLUTION NO. R-08-24 - A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING THE BID OF APOLLO, INC FOR THE
PULLMAN DOWNTOWN IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT..pdf (103 KB)
Resolution Exhibit 1.pdf (51 KB)
Attachment 1-Bid Summary_Bid Tab.pdf (121 KB)
Attachment 2-Potential Project Budget Summary.pdf (76 KB)

Motion & Voting

D. Adjourn
Subject :

1. A motion to adjourn the Special Meeting of Pullman
City Council.

Meeting :

Feb 6, 2024 - SPECIAL Council Meeting - Award
Project Downtown- 12 PM Noon

Category :

D. Adjourn

Type :

Action

Recommended Action :

A motion to adjourn the Special meeting of Pullman
City Council.

File Attachments

Letter from Bob Cady.pdf (373 KB)
The Social and Cultural Value of Mature Trees.pdf (64 KB)

Motion & Voting
A motion to adjourn the Special meeting of Pullman City Council.
Motion by Ann Parks, second by Nathan Weller.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine
Gaither

