Regular Council Meeting (Tuesday, January 30, 2024)
Generated by Dee Stiles-Elliott on Wednesday, January 31, 2024
City of Pullman
Council Minutes
City Council Chambers
190 SE Crestview Street
Pullman, WA 99163
7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, January 30, 2024
  Members present
  Mayor Francis Benjamin, Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, and Trymaine Gaither.
  The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m.
  A. Roll Call
  B. Announcements
  Mayor Benjamin made six announcements. 
  C. Presentations
  Presentation: 1. Pullman School District - 2024 Levy
Pullman School District's Finance Director Diane Hodge presented information on the upcoming February 2024 Enrichment and Technology levy for Pullman School District and how the funds are used to close the gaps in the district's budget.  
Presentation: 2. Pullman City Council Goals & Priorities for 2022-2023 Update for 2023Q4
  This agenda item was tabled until the February 13, 2024 council meeting.
  D. Public Comment
  Mayor Benjamin opened public comment to take any comments on consent or regular agenda items on which the Council will take final action but excluded items where public comment was previously accepted, including prior Public Hearings. There were no comments.
  E. Consent Agenda.  
  The items listed under the consent agenda are considered to be routine in nature and will be enacted by a single motion of the City Council without separate discussion.
  Action: 1.  
  A motion to read the Consent Agenda by title only.
  Motion by Nathan Weller, second by Eric Fejeran.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
  F. Consent Agenda items.
  Action (Consent): 1.  
  A motion to dispense with the reading of the January 9, 2024 meeting minutes and approve them as submitted.
  Action (Consent), Minutes: 2.  
  A motion to dispense with the reading of the January 16, 2024, Special meeting minutes and approve them as submitted.
  Action (Consent): 3.  
  A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered 2010332 through 2010401 totaling $744,138.25
  Action: 4.  
  A Motion to Approve the Transfer of Sales Tax Revenue to CIP Reserve Fund for 2023Q4 in the amount of $403,443
  Action (Consent): 5.  
  A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered 2010236 through 2010268 totaling $1,605,055.70
  Action (Consent): 6.  
  A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered 111673 through 111691; Electronic Transfers 141, 142, 1100, 1105, and 1107 through 1113; Payroll Direct Deposits numbered 90540 through 90858 totaling $1,489,132.27
  Action (Consent): 7.  
  A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered 2010269 through 2010305 totaling $5,357.491.91
  Action (Consent): 8.  
  A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered 2010306 through 2010331 totaling $323,805.48
  Action (Consent), Resolutions: 9.  
  RESOLUTION R-05-24 - A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING THE BID OF RD ELECTRIC, LLC FOR PLACEMENT OF AN EXTERNAL EMERGENCY GENERATOR AT PULLMAN FIRE STATION NO. 1 AND AUTHORIZING EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THE CONTRACT FOR SAID PROJECT.
  Mayor Benjamin asked if the Council would like any consent agenda items removed for further discussion. Councilmember Wright requested consent agenda item four be removed for discussion.
  Motion by Pat Wright, second by Megan Guido, to approve consent agenda items one, two, three, five, six, seven, eight, and nine as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
  Councilmember Wright stated as we look at the health of the Capital Improvement Reserve Fund,  she wanted to recognize past City Councilmember Barney Waldrop, who recommended that the city set up a special fund to supplement the Capital Improvement Fund, and thanked him for his forward-thinking and expertise while serving on the Council.
  Mayor Benjamin asked for a motion to approve consent agenda item four.
  A Motion to Approve the Transfer of Sales Tax Revenue to CIP Reserve Fund for 2023Q4 in the amount of $403,443
  Motion by Pat Wright, second by Eric Fejeran.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
  G. Regular Agenda.
  City Administrator Mike Urban stated on July 12, 2022, the Pullman City Council approved Ordinance 22-18, creating a new chapter in City Code 1.58, "Salary Commission for Elected Officials," which supersedes previous language in Chapter 1.40.
  In preparing to recruit the 2024 Salary Commission, staff discovered that Chapter 1.40 was not repealed as it should have been when approving Ordinance 22-18.
  To correct this oversight and provide additional clarity, staff recommends that the Council approve the proposed ordinance to repeal chapter 1.40 in the Pullman City Code. 
  Action, Ordinances: 1.  
  ORDINANCE NO. 24-04 - AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PULLMAN, WHITMAN COUNTY, WASHINGTON, RELATING TO TITLE 1 ADMINISTRATION, REPEALING CHAPTER 1.40 "SALARIES OF CITY OFFICERS," AND OTHER MATTERS PROPERLY RELATED THERETO.
  Motion by Megan Guido, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
  City Administrator Mike Urban explained on February 20, 1979; the Pullman City Council adopted Resolution R-18-79, which provided for the election of the Mayor Pro Tempore commensurate with RCW to occur annually at the first Regular City Council Meeting in February or at any time that the office becomes vacant. 
  After reviewing previous activities, staff recommends the City Council consider repealing this resolution and replacing it to create a formal acknowledgment of the Alternate Mayor Pro Tempore position and to increase timeliness and efficiency in appointing these positions to coincide with the City Council's annual assignment of responsibilities to boards, commissions, and committees.
  Action, Resolutions: 2.
  RESOLUTION NO. R-06-24 - A RESOLUTION REPEALING RESOLUTION NO. R-18-79, A RESOLUTION PROVIDING FOR THE ANNUAL ELECTION OF A MAYOR PRO TEMPORE, AND ADOPTING RESOLUTION NO. R-06-24 FOR THE PURPOSE OF PROVIDING TIMELY ELECTION OF A MAYOR PRO TEMPORE AND RECOGNIZING THE POSITION OF ALTERNATE MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
  Motion by Megan Guido, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
  City Administrator Mike Urban explained that at the January 9, 2024, council meeting, he presented a discussion item regarding the agenda framework for regular city council meetings.
  Guidance was provided to the City Administrator to return with a resolution outlining the preferred agenda order for a final discussion and possible adoption at the next Regular City Council Meeting on January 30, 2024.
  After additional research, Resolution R-12-13 was identified as the guiding document for the current regular agenda structure. Staff discussed this existing resolution and learned that it had been amended in the past with Resolution R-22-21 as an example for when City Hall moved from the old location at 325 SE Paradise Street to the new location at 190 SE Crestview Street. As such, staff has created Resolution No. R-07-24 for City Council consideration based on the previous instructions provided and past practices.
  City staff recommends adopting the subject headers as presented only. The expectation is to provide thorough descriptions of the agenda item under the headers assembled in BoardDocs to understand each item better. Adopting the header items allows for flexibility in future editing of such clarifying language when further explanation may be required or changes become necessary due to state laws being enacted - while not requiring staff to return to the City Council with additional resolutions for these simple language modifications. 
  Action, Resolutions: 3.  
  RESOLUTION R-07-24 - A RESOLUTION AMENDING RESOLUTION R-12-13 RELATING TO RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE PULLMAN CITY COUNCIL AND UPDATING SECTION 3.3 "CITY COUNCIL ORDER OF BUSINESS" IN ENTIERITY AND ADOPTING THE NEW ORDER OF BUSINESS FOR THE REGULAR MEETING AGENDA.
  Motion by Nathan Weller, second by Carla De Lira.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
  Action: 4.  
  Nominations & Election of Mayor Pro Tempore & Alternate Mayor Pro Tempore
  Councilmember Guido moved to elect Councilmember Wright as Mayor Pro Tempore and Councilmember Fejeran as the Alternate Mayor Pro Tempore.
  Motion by Megan Guido, second by Nathan Weller.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
  H. Discussion Items
  Mayor Benjamin asked each Councilmember which board, commission, and committee assignments they would like to retain, add or drop for 2024.   After a thorough discussion, the Council agreed on the following: 
  Councilmember De Lira                  Palouse Regional Transportation Planning Organization                                                                     (RTPO)        
                                                            Audit Committee
  Councilmember Fejeran                 Audit Committee
                                                            PalouseOne
                                                            Capital Improvement Program (CIP)
        Councilmember Gaither                  Southeast Washington Economic Development (SEWEDA)
                                                            Volunteer Firefighter Relief and Pension Board (BVFF)
                                                            Law Enforcement Officer & Firefighters Disability Board
(LEOFF) 
  Megan Guido                                  Lodging Tax Advisory Commission (LTAC)
  Ann Parks                                         Volunteer Firefighter Relief and Pension Board (BVFF)
                                                            Neill Public Library Board
                                                            Law Enforcement Officer & Firefighters Disability Board
(LEOFF)                  
  Nathan Weller                                 Palouse Basin Aquifer Committee (PBAC)
                                                            Whitman County Solid Waste Advisory Committee (SWAC)
  Pat Wright                                       Lodging Tax Advisory Commission (LTAC)
                                                            Capital Improvement Program (CIP)
  Mayor Benjamin requested a motion to approve the Boards, Commission, and Committee assignments.
  Motion by Nathan Weller, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither.
  I. New Business.
  Mayor Benjamin asked if any new business would come before the Council.
  City Administrator Mike Urban explained that since changes have been made to Resolution No. R-12-13 relating to meetings, he would like to consolidate the information into one resolution with all the information in one place so it would be easier to reference. The Council agreed. He will work on an agenda item and bring it back before the Council for adoption. 
  Mayor Benjamin asked if any other new business would come before the Council.
  Timothy Powlitz expressed his opposition to removing the trees downtown. He asked the Council to redo the Request for Proposals to allow alternatives to have less impact on the downtown trees. 
  Nick Piltslionis expressed his opposition to the timeline for Project Downtown, saying the impact on downtown businesses would be too significant, and asked the Council to consider doing the project in increments.
  Larry Clark encourages the Council and Pullman citizens to support the Pullman School District Levy by voting to keep our excellent schools in Pullman.
  Pamela Lee expressed opposition to Project Downtown, indicating the economic loss for food and mercantile businesses would be catastrophic with a six-and-one-half-month construction schedule. 
  CJ Robert expressed opposition to Project Downtown and doesn't believe the Council is listening to the downtown businesses and addressing their concerns.
  Orin Ford voiced his concerns about losing revenue during the spring and early fall, the busiest times. Pullman is a hard place to do business as it is very seasonal. He encouraged the Council to listen to citizens and use their best judgment.
  Judy Kolde acknowledged Project Downtown is a  complicated project and empathized with the Council and downtown businesses. She encouraged everyone to pull together and not be combative during this project. 
  Bob Cady voices his concerns with Project Downtown and the difficulties for businesses during construction. He also opined on the staff's combative and dismissive tone in response to the business owner's concerns. 
  Bobbie Ryder presented a document to the Council and spoke about Value Engineering and the cost effects in the future. She spoke specifically about speed tables, planting beds, bulb-outs, bike lanes, bike racks, benches, and Pine Street Plaza recommendations. 
  Adam Ratliff stated that seeing this project be so divisive has been heartbreaking because we all will not get everything we want. Even though this project will be complicated, we as a community will come out better. He encouraged the Council and community to shop locally and especially shop downtown during the construction months. 
  Linda Russo stated she is fully supportive of the businesses. She proposed using a local horticulturist to reexamine the downtown trees so as not to have to remove them. 
  Mayor Benjamin asked if any other new business would come before the Council.
  Councilmember De Lira stated that I want the Council to consider allowing public comment during the special meeting. And we as a council have the power to make that happen by putting it to a vote today. The Downtown Project is very large and will impact many community members. Community members should be able to weigh in on this large project at every step of the way, including when we're about to make a major decision on the Downtown Project on the sixth. I realized that this may impact councilmembers' schedules on the sixth. But, this project will make an impact on the schedules of many community members for six months. Allowing for public comment will send out the message that we are committed to listening to the thoughts and concerns of everyone who is a stakeholder in this project.
  Further, this is the message that we're turning a new page in our governing by allowing for more frequent, well-communicated opportunities for public meeting participation between community members and local government. As we heard from a wide range of community members recently, during the January 16 interviews, we can provide and improve our lines of communication. So, I hope I have the support of my fellow council members in allowing for public comment during the special meeting on February 6.
  Councilmember De Lira moved to include public comment at the February 6, 2024 Special Meeting. 
  Motion by Carla De Lira, second by Eric Fejeran.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither.
  Mayor Benjamin announced at this time, the City Council will adjourn to an Executive Session pursuant to RCW 42.30.110(1)(b) to consider the selection of a site or the acquisition of real estate by lease or purchase when public knowledge regarding such consideration would cause a likelihood of increased price; RCW 42.30.110(1)(i), to discuss with legal counsel representing the City matters relating to agency enforcement actions, or to discuss with legal counsel representing the agency Litigation to which the agency, the governing body, or a member acting in an official capacity is a party when public knowledge regarding the discussion is likely to result in an adverse legal or financial consequence to the agency; RCW 42.30.110(1)(i), to discuss with legal counsel representing the City matters relating to agency enforcement actions or to discuss with legal counsel representing the agency potential Litigation concerning Litigation or legal risks of a proposed action or current practice that the agency has identified when public discussion of the litigation or legal risks is likely to result in an adverse legal or financial consequence to the agency; and while the provisions of the Open Public Meeting Act do not apply to discussions relating to the interpretation or application of a labor agreement, or that portion of a meeting during which the governing body is planning or adopting the strategy or position to be taken during the course of any collective bargaining, professional negotiations, or grievance or mediation proceedings, or reviewing the proposals made during the course of negotiations or proceedings, the City Council is announcing its intention to discuss such matters in executive session. 
  The Executive Session is expected to last approximately 15 minutes. If it becomes necessary to extend the Executive Session, someone will return to announce the anticipated additional time needed by the City Council.
  The Council does not anticipate taking action following the Executive Session. 
  The Executive Session started at 8:55 p.m.
  At 9:10 p.m., Community Development Director RJ Lott announced that the Council would extend the Executive Session for 10 minutes.
  At 9:20 p.m., Community Development Director RJ Lott announced that the Council would extend the Executive Session for 10 minutes.
  At 9:30 p.m., Community Development Director RJ Lott announced that the Council would extend the Executive Session for 10 minutes.
  At 9:40 p.m., Community Development Director RJ Lott announced that the Council would extend the Executive Session for 10 minutes.
  At 9:50 p.m., Community Development Director RJ Lott announced that the Council would extend the Executive Session for 10 minutes.
  At 10:00 p.m., Community Development Director RJ Lott announced that the Council would extend the Executive Session for 10 minutes.
  At 10:10 p.m., Community Development Director RJ Lott announced that the Council would extend the Executive Session for 5 minutes. 
  At 10:15 p.m., Community Development Director RJ Lott announced that the Council would extend the Executive Session for 3 minutes. 
  At 10:18 p.m., Community Development Director RJ Lott announced that the Council would extend the Executive Session for 5 minutes.
      J. Adjournment.
  Action, Motions: 1. A motion to adjourn the meeting.
  Motion by Trymain Gaither, second by Eric Fejeran.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
  The regular meeting of Pullman City Council was adjourned at 10:24 p.m.
        _______________________
City Clerk Dee Stiles-Elliott
 