Regular Council Meeting (Tuesday, February 13, 2024)
Generated by Dee Stiles-Elliott on Wednesday, February 14, 2024

City of Pullman
Council Minutes
City Council Chambers
190 SE Crestview Street
Pullman, WA 99163
7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, February 13, 2024
Members present
Mayor Francis Benjamin, Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran,
Carla De Lira, and Trymaine Gaither.
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m.
A. Call to Order, Roll Call
B. Announcements
Mayor Benjamin made five announcements.
C. Community Comments
Nick Pitsilionis stated that the construction manager from Apollo, Inc. contacted him, and
he is excited that these people care about our community. Despite everything that's come
to date, he looks forward to working alongside all of them. Nick asked that the idea of
mitigating traffic and parking within the currently chosen paradigm be thoroughly
explored.
D. City Councilmember Comments
Councilmember De Lira reported she and Councilmember Fejeran had met with a WSU
Student group and discussed their ideas for public transportation, trails, lighting, and
walking around Pullman in the Ward Two area. Councilmember De Lira asked the
Council to collaborate with them in the future.
E. Mayor's Comments
Mayor Benjamin had no comments.
F. Committee, Commission, Board Reports
There were no reports.
G. City Council and Mayor Future Regular Agenda Requests.
There were no requests.
H. Community Comments on final action items for this agenda.
Downtown Business owner Jandi Utzman suggested ideas for advertising downtown
businesses through the construction phase.
I. Confirmation of Appointments
Action: 1.
A motion to confirm the appointments of Karen Sires, Joe Pitzer, Rob Rembert, Allision
Munch-Rotolo, and Rick Grunewald to the Salary Commission for Elected Officials with
a term ending July 31, 2024.

Motion by Pat Wright, second by Eric Fejeran.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
J. Presentations
Presentation: 1.
Pullman City Council Goals & Priorities for 2022-2023 Update for 2023Q4
City Administrator Mike Urban explained that the Pullman City Council held a retreat on February
5, 2022, and goal-setting work sessions on March 22, 2022, and April 19, 2022. The City
Council adopted the Final 2022-2023 Goals & Priorities document on May 3, 2022.
As part of the adopted document, the City Council requested quarterly updates on the
progress of these goals and priorities. Updates have occurred regularly via memos from the
City Administrator to the Mayor and City Council. In place of a quarterly memo update, the
City Council requested updates in 2023Q1 and 2024Q1 to be in person as part of an agenda
item during a City Council Meeting.
In addition, the City Council would like to resume the goal-setting cycle to occur directly before
the 2025-2026 biennial budget process.
K. Consent Agenda.
The items listed under the consent agenda are considered to be routine in nature and will
be enacted by a single motion of the City Council without separate discussion.
Mayor Benjamin asked for a motion to read the Consent Agenda by title only.
Motion by Ann Parks, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
L. Consent Agenda items.
Action (Consent), Minutes: 1.
A motion to dispense with the reading of the January 30, 2024 minutes and approve them
as submitted.
Consent Agenda, Action (Consent): 2.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Utility Refund Check Numbered 2010402 totaling
$713.28
Consent Agenda, Action (Consent): 3.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered 2010403
through 2010464 totaling $517,035.71
Consent Agenda: 4.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered 111692
through 111701; Electronic Transfers 143, 144, 1114, and 1116 through 1120, and 1122;
Payroll Direct Deposits numbered 90859 through 91196 totaling $1,067,920.37
Consent Agenda, Action (Consent): 5.

A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered 2010465
through 2010478 totaling $154,095.53
Consent Agenda, Action (Consent): 6.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered 2010479
through 2010516 totaling $195,386.10
Action (Consent): 7.
A motion to approve the purchase of one new 2023 police vehicle
Consent Agenda, Action: 8.
A motion to approve the purchase of a new one-and-a-half-ton 4x4 pickup truck up-fitted
with a utility box and crane.
Action (Consent): 9.
A motion to authorize a Lodging Tax Grant to the American Junior Golf Association for an
amount up to $40,000.00 for AJGA Golf Tournament in Pullman.
Action (Consent), Resolution: 10.
RESOLUTION NO. R-09-24 - A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF A
WATERSMART WATER AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY GRANT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2024
APPLICATION TO THE BUREAU OF RECLAMATION FOR THE ADVANCED
METERING INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT; AUTHORIZING THE ACCEPTANCE AND
EXECUTION OF THE GRANT AGREEMENT IF AWARDED; AND OTHER MATTERS
RELATED THERETO.
Mayor Benjamin asked if the Council would like any consent agenda items removed for further
discussion. There were none.
Motion by Eric Fejeran, second by Ann Parks, to approve consent agenda items one through
ten as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
M. Public Hearing
There was no public hearing.
N. Regular Agenda.
Mayor Benjamin asked the Appearance of Fairness questions.
1) Does any member of this Council have knowledge of having conducted business with either
the proponents or the opponents in this proceeding?
2) Has any member of this Council communicated with any proponent or opponent regarding the
proposal that is the subject of this proceeding?
3) Does any member of this Council have either a financial or personal interest in the outcome
of this proceeding?
4) Does any member of this Council know whether or not their employer has a financial interest
in this matter or has an interest in the outcome of this proceeding?
5) Does any member of this Council live or own property within 300 feet of the area which is the
subject of this proceeding?
6) Does any member of this Council have any special knowledge about the substance or the
merits of this proceeding, which would or could cause the Councilmember to prejudge the
outcome of this proceeding?
7) Is there any member of this Council who believes that he or she cannot sit and hear this matter
fairly and impartially, both as to the respective positions of the proponents and the opponents
in this proceeding?

8) Is there any member of the audience who, because of the "Appearance of Fairness Doctrine,"
wishes to disqualify any member of this Council from hearing this matter? If so, please state
the name of the Councilmember and the reason or reasons why you believe that member
should be disqualified because of the "Appearance of Fairness Doctrine."
The Mayor and all Councilmembers answered "no" to all eight questions.
There were no objections from the audience.

Regular Agenda, Action, Resolution, Motion: 1.
Community Development Director RJ Lott explained the West End Villas Planned Residential
Development is a proposal to divide approximately 5.26 acres into 65 lots. The PRD includes
the construction of 60 townhouses, four lots for open space, and one lot for a private road. The
site for the project is north of Pullman High School, located south of NW High Point Court, and
east of NW Valley View Drive on Military Hill.
The current zoning designation at this location is R-2 Low-Density Multi-Family Residential. The
R-2 zoning district allows for a maximum density of 15 units per acre.
A planned residential development allows for flexibility and creativity in the layout and design of
new residential developments.
The Planned Residential Development went through the site plan committee on May 30, 2023,
and had 45 recommended conditions outlined in the staff report.
The Planning Commission held a public hearing on this item on June 28, 2023, and voted
unanimously in favor of a recommendation of approval to the City Council. At the public hearing
on June 28, 2023, numerous individuals spoke against the proposal. They cited traffic, parking,
and neighborhood character as their chief concerns.
This proposal appeared before the City Council on July 11, 2023. The City Council remanded
the item back to staff with the direction that the applicant prepare and submit a traffic impact
analysis regarding potential impacts associated with this project proposal.
The traffic impact analysis was received on December 15, 2023. A review of the analysis by
staff from the Public Works Department concluded that there is no significant impact on traffic.
RESOLUTION NO. R-10-24 - A RESOLUTION APPROVING THE WEST END VILLAS
PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT PRELIMINARY PLAN.
Motion by Megan Guido, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
Nay: Ann Parks
Mayor Benjamin asked the Appearance of Fairness Questions as he had done for the previous
agenda item. The Mayor and all Councilmembers answered "no" to all eight questions.
There were no objections from the audience.
Regular Agenda, Action, Resolution, Motion: 2.
RESOLUTION NO. R-11-24 - A RESOLUTION APPROVING THE PRELIMINARY
PLAT OF THE WEST END VILLAS PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT.
Motion by Eric Fejeran, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
Nay: Ann Parks
Regular Agenda, Action, Resolution, Motion: 3.

City Administrator Mike Urban stated Resolution No. R-12-24 will authorize a professional
services agreement with Welch Comer for the Downtown Pullman Improvement Project phase
three. The contract with Apollo was awarded on February 6, 2024. Phase three is part of the
original RFP. The City Council selected Welch Comer from four proposals in October 2021.
Phase zero was the original surveying piece. Having Welch Comer do construction management
on this project is vital to ensure the contractor maintains timelines. The City Staff's ability to
perform this work and keep other projects moving is not feasible; we need professional help.
Welch Comer Engineer Matt Gillis explained the generalities of the construction phase services
agreement and how they will help through the construction process. The City has contractual
ties with Apollo, Inc. as the contractor, and the City will have a separate contract with Welch
Comer as the project engineer. There is no contractual tie between the contractor and the
engineer. Welch Comer has an unbiased, unconnected relationship with the contractor because
they represent the City of Pullman.
Welch Comer's priority is the public's health, welfare, and safety. Welch Comer is responsible
for informing the public about what is happening with the project and is also tasked with enforcing
the contract between Apollo and the City of Pullman. Enforcing that document, Welch Comer is
ensuring that the construction of Main Street is done according to the contract documents, the
plans, the specifications, and all the associated requirements.
Matt explained he will serve the City as the overall project manager from the engineering side,
and his team has a specific level of expertise that's very important to the project.
Welch Comer has technical staff and engineers, as technical things will come up during this
project that must be addressed immediately. As important as the technical and administrative
services are with the project, Welch Comer must keep very close tabs on pay requests, change
orders, and funding, which is the project administrator's job. One of the most critical jobs on site
is the Resident Project Representative, who will be on-site every day the contractors are on site,
watching every move they make, documenting everything they do, and ensuring that it's being
done per the contract.
The Welch Comer Focused Public Outreach Coordinator will handle news releases, website
updates, weekly newsletters, and outreach to specific business people. The Public Outreach
Coordinator will interact daily with the on-site representative so that they know what the other is
doing because they both must know the project's status.
The Project's Broad Public Outreach Coordinator, Recraft, is an independent consultant who
does not promote the City of Pullman, the Project Downtown Pullman, or Welch Comer. The
Project's Broad Public Outreach Coordinator and his staff will work with the Focused Public
Outreach Coordinator to inform the public via photography, social media, and videography of
the project site and social media content production throughout the project.
Matt explained Welch Comer would host a neighborhood open house meeting in the next couple
of weeks where his team and the contractor could answer the public's questions. Welch Comer
will also host a workshop for Pullman businesses to talk with the design team and ask questions
about the project's design.
RESOLUTION NO. R-12-24 - A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF A
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF PULLMAN AND
WELCH-COMER ENGINEERS FOR THE DOWNTOWN PULLMAN PROJECT PHASE
3 – CONSTRUCTION PHASE SERVICES.
Motion by Pat Wright, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
O. Discussion Items
Discussion Items: 1.
Mayor Benjamin explained this agenda item is a follow-up from the council retreat held

on February 3 and is in preparation for the goal setting. The Council discussed their
interest in having a pubic input session before the goal setting that would allow in-person
conversations and online suggestions for goal setting.
The Council unanimously agreed to have a special meeting on Tuesday, March
5, 2024, at 6:00 p.m., each Councilmember will sit at a table to facilitate conversations
with the public and answer questions. The Council agreed to have their Goal Setting
Retreat on a Saturday morning after the public input special meeting. The Council agreed
on the below table assignments.
Mayor Benjamin

Washington State University, Pullman School District, Pullman
Regional Hospital, and Pullman Moscow Regional Airport.

Fejeran

Administration, Finance, Communications, Human Resources and
Information Technology.

Wright

Community Development, Economic Development, Geographic
Information Systems, Tourism, Planning, and Housing

Guido

Downtown Revitalization

Weller

Fire and Police

Parks

Library

Gaither

Parks, Facilities and Recreation

De Lira

Public Works, Streets, Stormwater, Traffic and Transit

P. New Business.
This agenda item is for the City Council, Mayor or City Staff to bring new items forward
that are in need of timely attention and only presented itself after the publication of this
agenda.
There was no new business.
Q. Executive Session
At 8:30 p.m., Mayor Benjamin announced this time, the City Council will adjourn to an Executive
Session pursuant to RCW 42.30.110(1)(b) to consider the selection of a site or the acquisition
of real estate by lease or purchase when public knowledge regarding such consideration would
cause a likelihood of increased price.
The Executive Session is expected to last approximately 10 minutes. If it becomes necessary
to extend the Executive Session, someone will return to announce the anticipated additional time
needed by the City Council.
The Council does not anticipate taking action following the Executive Session.
The Executive Session began at 8:35 p.m.
An announcement was made at 8:45 p.m. that the City Council would extend its Executive
Session for 3 minutes.
R. Adjournment.
A motion to adjourn the regular meeting of Pullman City Council
Motion by Trymaine Gaither, second by Carla De Lira.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries

Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
The meeting adjourned at 8:49 p.m.
_____________________________
City Clerk Dee Stiles-Elliott

