Regular Council Meeting (Tuesday, April 16, 2024)
Generated by Dee Stiles-Elliott on Wednesday, April 17, 2024

City of Pullman
Council Minutes
City Council Chambers
190 SE Crestview Street
Pullman, WA 99163
7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, April 16, 2024
Members present
Mayor Francis Benjamin, Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran,
Carla De Lira, and Trymaine Gaither
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m.
A. Call to Order: 1. Roll Call
B. Announcements
Mayor Benjamin thanked the community for supporting the Downtown Pullman Project and
downtown businesses.
C. Community Comments
Pullman Residents Karl Boehmke, Lisa Carloye, Carolyn Gordon, Bob Cady, and Bobbie
Ryder urged the Council to keep the paver design in Pine Street Plaza.
D. City Councilmember Comments
Councilmember De Lira moved to place a discussion item under new business to discuss the
Pine Street Plaza design change. Councilmember Gaither seconded the motion.
Councilmember Fejeran invited the community to join the President’s Commission on gender
identity, expression, and sexual orientation at a Spring Celebration on April 18, 2024, from 3:00
to 5:00 p.m. at the WSU CUB building.
E. Mayor’s Comments
Mayor Benjamin had no comments.
F. Committee, Commission, Board Reports
There were no reports.
G. City Council and Mayor Future Regular Agenda Requests
There were no requests.
H. Community Comments on Final Action Items for this Agenda
There were no comments.
I. Confirmation of Appointments
There were no appointments.
J. Presentations
Presentations: 1. BlueBridge Alliance Police Awards

Police Chief Jake Opgenorth and Mayor Benjamin presented the following BlueBridge Alliance
Awards.
Teayana Dillon - Program Champion- Community Connector Award
Abby St. Andre - Program Champion - Program Values Award
Nathan Padrta - Overall Individual Agency MVP
Jericho Dahlin - National Individual MVP Award
Presentations: 2. 2023 Parks & Recreation Annual Report
Parks & Recreation Manager Megan Vining and Parks & Facilities Director Kurt Dahmen
presented their 2023 Annual Report.
Presentations: 3. Financial Update - 2023Q4
Finance Director Jeff Elbracht presented the City of Pullman’s financial update for the 4th
quarter of 2023.
K. Consent Agenda.
The items listed under the consent agenda are considered to be routine in nature and will
be enacted by a single motion of the City Council without separate discussion.
Action: 1. A motion to read the Consent Agenda by title only.
Motion by Pat Wright, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
L. Consent Agenda items
Action (Consent), Minutes: 1.
A motion to dispense with the reading of the March 26, 2024 meeting minutes and
approve them as submitted.
Action (Consent): 2.
A motion to approve the purchase of two (2) new 2025 police vehicles.
Action (Consent): 3.
A motion to award Bid No.2024-002, Water and Sewer General Materials, and
authorize all actions necessary to execute contracts for such items.
Action (Consent): 4.
A Motion to Approve the Transfer of Sales Tax Revenue to CIP Reserve Fund for
2024Q1 in the amount of $319,396
Action (Consent): 5.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered 2010907
through 2010974 totaling $769,430.56
Action (Consent): 6.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered 2010975
through 2011039 totaling $322,735.67

Action (Consent): 7.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered 2011040
through 2011102 totaling $410,803.48
Action (Consent): 8.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks, Electronic
Transfers, and ADP Payroll Transfers totaling $1,092,937.92
Action (Consent): 9.
A Motion to Approve an Administrative Services Contract with the Pullman-Moscow
Regional Airport for 2024
Action (Consent): 10.
A motion to authorize an RFP for the installation of a Phoenix G2 paging system for
Pullman Fire Department.
Action (Consent), Resolution: 11.
RESOLUTION NO. R-21-24 - A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR AND THE
FINANCE DIRECTOR TO EXECUTE A PROJECT PROSPECTUS AND LOCAL
AGENCY AGREEMENT FOR THE CITYWIDE INTERSECTION IMPROVEMENT
PROJECT.
Action (Consent), Resolution: 12.
RESOLUTION NO. R-22-24 - A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR AND THE
FINANCE DIRECTOR TO EXECUTE A PROJECT PROSPECTUS AND LOCAL
AGENCY AGREEMENT FOR THE CITYWIDE PEDESTRIAN CROSSING
IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT.
Mayor Benjamin asked if the Council would like any consent agenda items removed for further
discussion. There were none
Motion by Pat Wright, second by Eric Fejeran.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
M. Public Hearing
There was not a public hearing.
N. Regular Agenda
Maintenance & Operations Administrative Assistant Cristin Reisenaur explained that the
Pullman City Code (PCC) Chapter 10B, Water Conservation, was adopted in March 2023. This
chapter establishes guidelines for Pullman water customers on when and how to apply water to
irrigated spaces to encourage responsible outdoor water usage and conservation. Based on
feedback from staff and the community following the first year of implementation of the thereindefined Outdoor Irrigation Season and Schedule, minor amendments are proposed to Section
10B.05.010 and 10B.05.025 per the attached drafted ordinance. A second attachment shows
the proposed additions and deletions within Chapter 10B.
Proposed Amendment #1:
The proposed amendments to Section 10B.05.010 aim to simplify the defined watering schedule
by modifying the definition of the Watering Window. The Watering Window begins at 6:00 p.m.
on the designated day and ends at 10:00 a.m. the following day. Feedback received showed
that this was confusing for customers to understand and implement.

Staff recommends that the definition of Watering Window be modified to allow watering any time
before 10:00 a.m. and after 6:00 p.m. on the same day.
This change avoids the overnight split of the Watering Window, providing the same initial intent
to restrict watering during the hottest times of the day, but in a manner that is easier to
understand and administer.
The remaining key components of the Outdoor Irrigation Season and Schedule would remain
the same and are as follows:
Outdoor Irrigation Season – June 1 to September 30 each year, unless declared
otherwise
• Outdoor Irrigation Schedule, Frequency – three (3) days per week maximum, based on
even and odd address numbering
o Even Addresses – Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
o Odd Addresses – Wednesday, Friday, Sunday
•

Proposed Amendment #2:
The second proposed amendment is within Section 10B.05.025. Schools and city-owned parks
may water any area for up to three days per calendar week. The proposed amendment will allow
these sites to water any area for up to four days in any calendar week. The Parks Department,
in particular, struggled with keeping the common grassy areas in a quality condition necessary
to support recreational activities specifically. This modification is anticipated to resolve this
concern while promoting efficient outdoor water use.
Action, Ordinance: 1.
ORDINANCE NO. 24-06 - AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
PULLMAN, WHITMAN COUNTY, WASHINGTON, AMENDING PULLMAN CITY CODE
SECTIONS 10B.05.010 AND 10B.05.025 AND ORDINANCE NO. ORD 23-7 §1 (2023),
AND OTHER MATTERS PROPERTLY RELATED THERETO.
Motion by Nathan Weller, second by Megan Guido.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
City Engineer Cara Haley explained the scope of contract 23-2, Terre View & Crestview Path.
Bids for this project were opened on March 26, 2024, and two proposals were received. MotleyMotley, Inc.’s low bid is $1,217,199.00, which is $300,004.00 (32.7%) higher than the Engineer’s
Estimate of $917,195.00. The second bid is 31.1% higher than the low bid, at $1,595,899.00.
The difference between the Engineer’s Estimate and the low bid is primarily attributable to the
underestimation of mobilization, landscape and restoration, and pedestrian railing costs. For the
bid items that apply to these three categories, the total price difference is $208,762.00, with over
two-thirds of this amount attributable solely to Bid Item 26, Pedestrian Railing. Staff estimated
this particular bid item utilizing contract unit prices from comparable projects in the past. The
most recent was a 2020 project at $50.00 per linear foot, and before that, a 2018 project at
$71.53 per linear foot. Staff attempted to account for inflation and market changes since then,
increasing and adjusting the estimated unit price to $100.00 per linear foot on this project, but
this was not enough. The low bidder assigned $250.00 per linear foot to this work item, with the
second bid at $140.00 per linear foot. Considering the significant amount of pedestrian railing
specified on this project (935 linear feet), this realized price difference of $150.00 per linear foot
is substantial. Despite the described underestimation of certain project elements, comparing the
two bids to each other provides a good indicator that the low bidder’s prices overall are fair and
represent the work involved and that the Engineer’s Estimate was just off.
A Complete Streets grant from the Transportation Improvement Board (TIB) is in place for this
project, contributing a set of $750,000.00, with the City responsible for covering any remaining
project costs above this. The local match amount equals $467,199.00 for the total low bid price,
more than double the $200,000.00 budgeted for in the Arterial Streets Fund. Recognizing this
budget deficit, staff has identified significant potential project savings if a design change is made

to utilize a black vinyl chain link fence instead of a pedestrian railing. Assuming an applicable
unit price for the fence of $70 per linear foot for the 935 linear feet needed, this results in an
estimated total savings of $168,300.00 if this design change is made. With this, the local match
amount projected would drop to a manageable $300,000.00.
City staff has contacted the Parks Department regarding this potential design change, as their
input was the primary driver during the design process for selecting pedestrian railing over the
fence. Either feature provides the fall protection measures required for safety purposes, with
the pedestrian railing preferred over the fence, considering it’s typically more accommodating to
snow removal activities. Parks confirmed that the fence is an acceptable alternative for this
project, given the substantial realized price for pedestrian railing.
Rejecting the bid and re-bidding the project, with or without the discussed design change, is not
recommended. First, it is not expected to result in a lower price. Second, doing so would likely
delay the project to next year, resulting in a loss of the TIB Complete Streets funds
($750,000.00), which, by agreement, must be expended by March 25, 2025. For these reasons,
staff recommends awarding this project to Motley-Motley, Inc. at the bid price of $1,217,199.00.
Following contract execution, staff would work with the Contractor to officially make a design
change from pedestrian railing to fence via a change order.
Action, Resolution: 2.
RESOLUTION NO. R-23-24 – A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING THE BID OF MOTLEYMOTLEY, INC. FOR THE TERRE VIEW & CRESTVIEW PATHS PROJECT AND
AUTHORIZING EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THE CONTRACT FOR SAID
PROJECT.
Motion by Megan Guido, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
Grants Manager Valerie Weaver explained that in early February, the Washington State
Transportation Improvement Board (TIB) announced a unique Early Opportunity Application for
Complete Street funding, available only for projects that will be constructed this year (2024).
The opportunity was only open to cities with a Complete Streets Ordinance, including Pullman.
The TIB indicated that this early opportunity application would likely be a one-time situation due
to an influx of Complete Streets funding in the next several years.
Upon learning this, staff recognized that the downtown project would be eligible to apply for this
unique and well-timed funding opportunity. Parts of the Downtown Improvements Project align
very well with Complete Streets criteria, and it was a project at the ready that met the requirement
of needing to be completed this year.
On March 22nd, the City was notified that the Transportation Improvement Board approved and
awarded $1,000,000 in Complete Streets funding for the Pullman Downtown Improvements
project. This funding amount is based on the TIB staff’s review of the project’s details and their
selection of which project bid items were eligible for Complete Streets funding. These items
include sidewalk, curb ramps, pavers, the bike lane, and bid additives 1, 2, 3, 4, and 7. The total
bid cost for these items is $1,177,874.50. TIB funds will cover 84.8987% of these specific project
costs, up to $1,000,000.
The Bid Additives 1, 2, 3, 4, and 7 were not initially awarded to the Contractor. Thus, pending
approval of this TIB Grant Agreement, a project change order has been prepared to add these
items back into the contract. This change order will be presented in the agenda items
immediately following this one. These bid additives include benches, trash receptacles, bike
racks, planter boxes, and wayfinding throughout the project limits.
Action: 3.
RESOLUTION NO. R-24-24- A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF A
GRANT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY OF PULLMAN AND THE WASHINGTON

STATE TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT
DOWNTOWN IMPROVEMENTS PROJECT.

BOARD

FOR

THE

PULLMAN

Motion by Megan Guido, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
Deputy Public Works Director Clayton Forsmann explained Pullman Downtown Improvements
consists of the improvement of East Main Street between N. Grand Avenue and SE Spring
Street, including water/sewer/storm mains, full road and sidewalk construction, traffic and
pedestrian signal construction, landscaping, and street furniture. At the February 6th meeting,
the City Council awarded the contract to Apollo, Inc. The contract award included the base bid
plus bid additive work at Pine Street Plaza. The bid additives for benches, trash receptacles,
bike racks, planter boxes, and wayfindings were not awarded.
Since the contract has been awarded, the City received a complete street grant from the
Washington State Department of Transportation Improvement Board to help fund the bid
additives that were not awarded. The change order for these additives increased the contract
amount by $246,260.00.
Action, Motion: 4.
A Motion to Ratify Change Order No. 1 to the Pullman Downtown Improvements
contract.
Motion by Ann Parks, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
O. Discussion Items
There were no discussion items.
P. New Business
Councilmember De Lira requested that the Council discuss maintaining the Pine Street Plaza
Paver design.
Q. Executive Session
At 8:51 p.m., Mayor Benjamin announced the City Council would adjourn to an Executive
Session pursuant to RCW 42.30.110(1)(d) to review negotiations on the performance of publicly
bid contracts when public knowledge regarding such consideration would cause a likelihood of
increased costs.
The Executive Session is expected to last approximately five minutes. If it becomes necessary
to extend the Executive Session, someone will return to announce the anticipated additional time
needed by the City Council.
The Council may take action following the Executive Session.
At 8:57 p.m., an announcement was made the City Council would extend its Executive Session
two minutes.
At 8:59 p.m., an announcement was made the City Council would extend its Executive Session
three minutes.
At 9:02 p.m., an announcement was made the City Council would extend its Executive Session
three minutes.

At 9:05 p.m., an announcement was made the City Council would extend its Executive Session
three 3 minutes.
At 9:08 p.m., an announcement was made the City Council would extend its Executive Session
two minutes.
At 9:09 p.m., Mayor Benjamin reconvened the Regular meeting of the Pullman City Council.
Councilmember De Lira asked the Council to consider Pullman Civic Trust’s request to maintain
the Pine Street Plaza paver design as she has heard from community members the project could
be completed at a low cost and limited timeline, and she would like to hear from Welch Comer
on how they evaluated this piece of the project.
Welch Comer will present an update at the April 23, 2024, City Council meeting. The Council
agreed to wait until they could hear the presentation and ask questions before adding an item to
the agenda.
R. Adjournment
Action: 1. A motion to adjourn the meeting.
Motion by Megan Guido, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
The meeting adjourned at 9:24 p.m.

_________________________________
City Clerk Dee Stiles-Elliott

