Regular Council Meeting (Tuesday, October 15, 2024)
Generated by Dee Stiles-Elliott on Wednesday, October 16, 2024

City of Pullman
Council Minutes
City Council Chambers
190 SE Crestview Street
Pullman, WA 99163
7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, October 15, 2024
Members present
Mayor Francis Benjamin, Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric
Fejeran, Carla De Lira, and Trymaine Gaither.
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m.
A. Call to Order, Roll Call
B. Announcements
Mayor Benjamin made six announcements.
C. Community Comments
Community member William voiced his concerns about the anti-Semitism and IsraelPalestine issues that Councilmembers De Lira and Fejeran have participated in.
D. City Councilmember Comments
In response to William's community comment, Councilmember Fejeran stated he did not
believe in name-calling and believed in creating opportunities for people to have
conversations.
E. Mayor's Comments
The Mayor had no comments.
F. Committee, Commission, Board Reports
There were no reports.
G. City Council and Mayor Future Regular Agenda Requests
There were no requests.
H. Community Comments on Final Action Items for this Agenda
There were no comments.
I. Confirmation of Appointments
There were no appointments.
J. Presentations
Presentations: 1. Pullman Nuisance Code
Code Enforcement Supervisor Jericho Dahlin presented on the City of Pullman nuisance
code, focusing on indoor furniture stored outdoors. Indoor furniture stored outdoors is
considered a violation, and infractions are issued to responsible parties. Jericho explains
the process of issuing infractions and the rationale behind issuing infractions to property
owners.

Presentations: 2. UPDATED - Mayor's Proposed 2025-2026 Budget
Mayor Benjamin presented the proposed budget, highlighting economic challenges and
the need for careful financial management. The budget included provisions for staff
retention, increased costs from partner agencies, and the need to balance revenues and
expenditures.
At 7:45 p.m., Mayor Benjamin adjourned the regular meeting of the Pullman City Council
and convened the special meeting of the Metropolitan Parks District.
At 7:46 p.m., Mayor Benjamin adjourned the Metropolitan Park District's special meeting
and reconvened the Pullman City Council's regular meeting.
K. Consent Agenda.
The items listed under the consent agenda are considered to be routine in nature
and will be enacted by a single motion of the City Council without separate
discussion.
Action: 1. A motion to read the Consent Agenda by title only.
Motion by Ann Parks, second by Carla De Lira.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
L. Consent Agenda items
Action (Consent), Minutes: 1.
A motion to dispense with the reading of the regular meeting minutes of October
08, 2024, and approve them as submitted.
Action (Consent): 2.
A motion authorizing the Mayor to enter into an annual contract with Clarion
Events/Fire Engineering Training for the use of an online training platform for the
Fire Department.
Action (Consent): 3.
A motion to authorize the Mayor and Financial and Administrative Services
Director to procure a new street sweeper to replace sweeper #17-070.
Action (Consent): 4.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
20112788 through 20112835 totaling $943,027.49
Action (Consent): 5.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Refund Checks Numbered 20112836
through 20112848 totaling $1072.41
Mayor Benjamin asked the Council if they would like any consent agenda items removed
for further discussion. There was none.
Motion by Megan Guido, second by Pat Wright, to approve the consent agenda as
presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither

M. Public Hearing
There was no public hearing.
N. Regular Agenda
Action, Ordinance: 1.
City Attorney Thaddeus O’Sullivan explained that following the issuance of a code
violation infraction, Pullman City Code (“PCC”) section 1.02.130 allows the person
responsible for the code violation to request the Code Enforcement Officer to re-inspect
to determine if the code violation has been corrected. Upon confirmation, the Code
Enforcement Officer signs and provides a “Certificate of Correction,” which may be
presented to the Municipal Court for dismissal of the infraction.
The City of Pullman contracts with the Whitman County District Court to provide municipal
court services. The Whitman County District Court has interpreted PCC 1.02.130 to
require re-inspection (if requested) and mandate issuance of certificate(s) of correction
regardless of the number of prior or pending infractions at a single premise. Allowing
serial certificates of correction discourages proactive compliance, promotes compliance
only post-infraction, and contradicts code enforcement objectives.
The proposed amendment limits the number of certificates available to a single person or
premises to one (1) per calendar year. This activity balances compliance with the
tolerance and opportunity to correct isolated violations.
The council discusses the proposed changes' legal and practical implications, with
concerns about the appearance of targeting specific individuals. The council members
debated the merits of the proposed changes, considering the impact on property
managers and the need for compliance.
Councilmember Parks moved to approve Ordinance No. 24-10 with amendments allowing
(1) one certificate of correction for the period of January 1st through June 31st and (1) one
from July 1st through December 31st, per single person or single premises, with an
effective date of January 1, 2025.
ORDINANCE NO. 24-10 - AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF PULLMAN, WASHINGTON, AMENDING PULLMAN CITY CODE
SECTION 1.02.130 AND ORDINANCE NO. 82-6 §§4, 5, AND 6 (1982),
ORDINANCE NO. 99-24 §14 (1999) AND OTHER MATTERS PROPERLY
RELATED THERETO.
Motion by Ann Parks, second by Trymaine Gaither.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine
Gaither
Nay: Nathan Weller
O. Discussion Items
There were no discussion items.
P. New Business
Mayor Benjamin asked if any new business would come before the Council. There was
none.
Q. Executive Session
There was no executive session.
R. Adjournment

Mayor Benjamin asked for a motion to adjourn the regular meeting of Pullman City
Council.
Motion by Pat Wright, second by Megan Guido.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira,
Trymaine Gaither
The meeting adjourned at 8:35 p.m.

____________________________
City Clerk Dee Stiles-Elliott

