Regular Council Meeting (Tuesday, October 29, 2024)
Generated by Dee Stiles-Elliott on Thursday, October 31, 2024

City of Pullman
Council Minutes
City Council Chambers
190 SE Crestview Street
Pullman, WA 99163
7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, October 29, 2024
Members present
Mayor Francis Benjamin, Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla
De Lira, Trymaine Gaither
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m.
A. Roll Call
A motion to excuse Councilmember Wright.
Motion by Eric Fejeran, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine
Gaither
Mayor Benjamin welcomed Senator Mark Schoesler and Representative Joe Schmick.
Senator Schoesler discussed the upcoming legislative session, emphasizing the need
for a general transportation package and the impact of rising costs.
Representative Schmick explained that he is focused on healthcare priorities,
highlighting the financial challenges of critical access hospitals and the need for creative
solutions for mental health and substance abuse treatment in rural areas.
The Council presented its 2025 Legislative Priorities to Senator Schoesler and
Representative Schmick.
The Council discussed the need for a freight mobility study and the in-town bypass
project, seeking support and funding for this initiative.
The Council discussed the potential benefits of the in-town rail project and asked for
support from the legislature.
The Council discussed the need for affordable housing, the impact of energy
requirements on affordability, and energy efficiency solutions.
The Council discussed and emphasized the need for affordable childcare options and
support for nonprofit economic development to address workforce challenges.
B. Announcements
Mayor Benjamin made six announcements.
C. Community Comments
Pullman Civic Trust Vice President Lisa Carloye invited the Council and the community
to visit the Pumpkin Wall on Grand Avenue and a construction wrap-up party to
celebrate the near completion of the Downtown Pullman Project.
D. City Councilmember Comments

Councilmember Fejeran announced an upcoming food drive.
Councilmember Parks mentioned not to forget about the Pullman Child Welfare food
bank when donating food items.
E. Mayor's Comments
Mayor Benjamin expressed his appreciation to all who attended the downtown
Halloween trick-or-treat, which was a great success and brought the public out to see all
the changes happening in the downtown area.
F. Committee, Commission, Board Reports
There were no reports.
G. City Council and Mayor Future Regular Agenda Requests
There were no requests.
H. Community Comments on Final Action Items for this Agenda
There were no comments.
I. Confirmation of Appointments
There were no appointments.
J. Presentations
Finance Director Jeff Elbracht presented the financial performance for quarter three,
highlighting trends in general fund revenue and expenses and the importance of
maintaining reserves.
K. Consent Agenda.
The items listed under the consent agenda are considered to be routine in nature
and will be enacted by a single motion of the City Council without separate
discussion.
Action: 1. A motion to read the Consent Agenda by title only.
Motion by Nathan Weller, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine
Gaither
L. Consent Agenda items
Action (Consent), Minutes: 1.
A motion to dispense with the reading of the regular meeting minutes of October
15, 2024, and approve them as submitted.
Action (Consent): 2.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks, Electronic
Transfers, and ADP Payroll Transfers totaling $1,694,759.46
Action (Consent): 3.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for UB Refund Checks Numbered 20112849
through 20112855 totaling $442.08

Action (Consent): 4.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
201128456 through 201128515 totaling $2,269,178.94
Action (Consent): 5.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
201128516 through 201128610 totaling $292,982.41
Action (Consent): 6.
A Motion to Approve the Transfer of Sales Tax Revenue to CIP Reserve Fund for
2024Q3 in the amount of $279,326
Action (Consent), Motion: 7.
A motion to accept the Canyon View Trail contract as complete.
Action (Consent), Motion: 8.
A motion to accept the Military Hill Resurfacing contract as complete.
Mayor Benjamin asked if the Council would like any consent agenda items removed for
further discussion. There were none.
Motion by Ann Parks, second by Eric Fejeran.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine
Gaither
M. Public Hearing
There was no public hearing.
N. Regular Agenda
City Administrator Mike Urban explained that due to various economic constraints, the
Mayor's Proposed 2025-2026 Biennial Budget shows General Fund expenditures
exceeding the project revenues for the General Fund. Like past budgets, fund balance
is needed to help stabilize the General Fund Reserves. However, unlike past budgets,
the gap created by recent inflationary pressures would draw down projected reserves at
the end of 2026 below the City Council threshold goal of 13%.
To maintain existing General Fund services & program activities and stabilize reserve
levels, the Mayor has proposed a temporary redirection of the portion of Business and
Occupation Tax Revenue currently levied on the gross receipts of utilities paid by the
providers of these utilities - not the customers. The portion of the revenues to be
redirected are exclusive from the Transit Fund to the General Fund beginning November
1, 2024, and ending December 31, 2026.
This temporary redirection will maintain existing services and programs regularly provided
in Transit and the General Fund Departments of Police, Fire, Library, Parks and
Recreation, Community Development, and Finance and Administration. This proposed
redirection will meet the City Council fund reserve threshold goal of 13% across all city
funds, including a projected reserve in the Transit Fund of 56% at the end of 2026.
If the City Council rejects the proposed temporary redirection, the General Fund Reserve
at the end of 2026 is estimated to be 4%, creating a $3.1 million shortfall, while the Transit
Fund Reserve would be an estimated 106%.
Action, Ordinance: 1.

ORDINANCE NO. 24-11 - AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF PULLMAN, WHITMAN COUNTY, WASHINGTON, RELATING TO
BUSINESS AND OCCUPATION TAX ON GROSS RECEIPTS OF UTILITIES,
AMENDING CHAPTER 6.15 AND PULLMAN CITY ORDINANCE NO. 00-31 OF
THE PULLMAN CITY CODE AND OTHER MATTERS PROPERLY RELATED
THERETO.
Motion by Nathan Weller, second by Megan Guido.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine
Gaither
O. Discussion Items
Fire Chief Mike Heston presented the 2025-2026 Fire Department and Ambulance
Budget.
Police Chief Jake Opgenorth presented the 2025-2026 Police Department Budget.
Neill Public Library Director Dan Owens presented the 2025-2026 Budget for the
Library.
Recreation Manager Megan Vining presented the 2025-2026 Budgets for Participant
Recreation, Pullman Senior Center, Aquatic Center, and Reaney Pool.
Parks and Facilities Director Kurt Dahmen presented the 2025-2026 Budgets for the
City Cemetery, Cemetery Expansion Fund, Cemetery Endowment Care Fund,
Community Improvement Fund, Parks and Facilities, Lawson Gardens Endowment
Fund, and Government Buildings.
Grants and Special Projects Manager Valerie Weaver presented the 2025-2026 Grants
and Special Projects Budget.
P. New Business
Public Works Director Sean Wells presented how to care for new concrete and winter
care, primarily focused on the new downtown sidewalks. He also explained that this would
include sidewalks in the sidewalk replacement program. He explained that concrete is
most acceptable for damage within the first year, and salt-based deicers cause the most
damage. City Staff recommends sand, calcium magnesium acetate, or potassium acetate
deicer on the sidewalks to protect people from slipping or falling.
Q. Executive Session
There was no executive session.
R. Adjournment
Mayor Benjamin asked for a motion to adjourn the regular meeting of Pullman City
Council.
Motion by Nathan Weller, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira, Trymaine
Gaither
The meeting adjourned at 10:02 p.m.
_____________________________
City Clerk Dee Stiles-Elliott

