Regular Council Meeting (Tuesday, January 9, 2024)
Generated by Dee Stiles-Elliott on Wednesday, January 24, 2024

City of Pullman
Council Minutes
City Council Chambers
190 SE Crestview Street
Pullman, WA 99163
7:00 p.m.
Tuesday, January 9, 2024

Members present
Mayor Francis Benjamin, Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric
Fejeran, and Carla De Lira.
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m.
A. Roll Call
B. Announcements
C. Confirmation of Appointment
Action: 1.
A motion to confirm the re-appointment of Donna Potts to the Neill Public Library
Board of Trustees with a term expiring December 31, 2029.
Motion by Nathan Weller, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
Action: 2.
A motion to confirm the re-appointment of Joe O’Callaghan to the Planning
Commission with a term expiring December 31, 2027.
Motion by Megan Guido, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
Action: 3.
A Motion to Confirm the re-appointment of Mary Schweitzer to the Cemetery
Committee with a term expiring December 31, 2026.
Motion by Pat Wright, second by Eric Fejeran.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
Action: 4.
A motion to confirm the re-appointments of John Anderson, Jennifer Hamilton, and
Anita Hornback to the Historic Preservation Commission with a term expiring
December 31, 2026.
Motion by Megan Guido, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
Action: 5.

A Motion to Confirm the re-appointment of Allen Sutton with a term expiring
December 31, 2027, Efren Ramos with a term expiring December 31, 2027, and
Libby Walker with a term expiring December 31, 2024, to the Diversity, Equity,
Inclusion and Belonging Committee.
Motion by Megan Guido, second by Ann Parks.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
Action: 6.
A Motion to Confirm the re-appointment of Mitch Chandler to the Lawson
Gardens Committee with a term expiring December 31, 2026.
Motion by Nathan Weller, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
Action: 7.
A Motion to Confirm the re-appointment of Tim Cordodor to the Lodging Tax
Advisory Commission with a term expiring December 31, 2026.
Motion by Pat Wright, second by Megan Guido.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
Action: 8.
A Motion to Confirm the re-appointment of Lynda Hamilton to the Parks &
Recreation Commission with a term expiring December 31, 2026.
Motion by Ann Parks, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
D. Presentations
Presentation: 1. Code of Conduct
Mayor Benjamin explained as part of the 2022-2023 City Council Goals & Priorities, the
Pullman City Council passed Resolution No. R-49-23. The “Code of Conduct” is for
elected officials, boards, committees, commissions, city staff, volunteers, and the
community and outlines the expected practices for the City of Pullman and the
community.
E. Public Comment
Mayor Benjamin opened public comment to take any comments on consent or regular
agenda items on which the Council will take final action but excluded items where public
comment was previously accepted, including prior Public Hearings. There were no
comments.
F. Consent Agenda.
The items listed under the consent agenda are considered to be routine in nature
and will be enacted by a single motion of the City Council without separate
discussion.
Motion by Ann Parks, second by Nathan Weller.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira

G. Consent Agenda items.
Action (Consent), Minutes: 1.
A motion to dispense with the reading of the December 12, 2023 meeting minutes
and approve them as submitted.
Action (Consent): 2.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
111642 through 111661; Electronic Transfers 137, 138, 1084, 1090, and 1092
through 1097; Payroll Direct Deposits numbered 89806 through 90151 totaling
$1,620,197.43
Action (Consent): 3.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Payroll Direct Deposits numbered 90152
through 90189 totaling $104,032.40
Action (Consent): 4.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
111662 through 111672; Electronic Transfers 139, 140, 1098, 1099 and 1101
through 1104, and 1106; Payroll Direct Deposits numbered 90190 through 90539
totaling $1,087,077.48
Action (Consent): 5.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
200885 through 200977 totaling $8,358,150.02
Action (Consent): 6.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
200978 through 201025 totaling $179,794.23
Action (Consent): 7.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
2010026 through 2010105 totaling $378,913.91
Action (Consent): 8.
A Motion to Approve Disbursements for Accounts Payable Checks Numbered
2010106 through 2010205 totaling $1,292,517.85
Action (Consent): 9.
A motion to authorize a Lodging Tax Grant to 2040 Wayfinding Committee/City of
Pullman for an amount up to $9,000.00 for wayfinding signs.
Action (Consent): 10.
A motion to ratify Amendment No. 2 to a Water Quality Combined Financial
Assistance Agreement between the City of Pullman and the Washington State
Department of Ecology for the Decant Facility Project.
Action (Consent): 11.
A motion authorizing the purchase of three 30-foot electric buses from BYD Coach
and Bus, LLC, with a 58% grant assistance from PATD0621 and PATD0625, via
the State purchasing contact 06719.

Action (Consent): 12.
A motion to authorize an amendment to extend the contract one year with GMV
Innovating Solutions to provide Pullman Tranist’s fixed Route system.
Action, Action (Consent), Resolutions: 13.
RESOLUTION NO. R-01-24 - A RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE NORTH
ARTERIAL TECHNICAL MEMORANDUM AND PROVIDING FOR OTHER
MATTERS PROPERLY RELATED THERETO.
Action (Consent), Motions, Resolutions: 14.
RESOLUTION NO. R-02-24 - A RESOLUTION ACCEPTING A STORMWATER
EASEMENT GRANTED BY ITANI LAND COMPANY, LLC, AUTHORIZING THE
EXECUTION OF SAID EASEMENT AND PROVIDING FOR OTHER MATTERS
PROPERLY RELATED THERETO.
Mayor Benjamin asked if the Council would like any consent agenda items removed for
further discussion. There were none.
Motion by Megan Guido, second by Eric Fejeran.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
H. Regular Agenda.
Community Development Director RJ Lott explained the Appeals of the Construction
Code can be confusing and challenging to the public. To increase responsiveness and
customer service, city staff has assembled an ordinance to assign the Hearing Examiner
as the body to hear appeals on the Pullman City Code, 2.10.090 Construction Code. The
amendment to City Code section 1.22 will give the Hearing Examiner the authority to hear
such appeals. The Hearing Examiner is scheduled on the third Monday of each month.
Action, Motions, Ordinances: 1.
ORDINANCE NO. 24-01 - AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CITY CODE SECTIONS
1.22.010, 1.22.020, AND 1.22.080 AS IT RELATES TO THE HEARING
EXAMINER.
Motion by Ann Parks, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
Action, Motions, Ordinances: 2.
Community Development Director RJ Lott explained this ordinance will amend Pullman
City Code sections 2.10 and 2.15 to direct the Hearing Examiner as the body for
construction appeals. Previous appeals procedures required the assembly to convene a
Construction Board of Appeals. This change will make the appeals process easier to
understand and timely for the public and staff.
The Hearing Examiner has already been assigned the responsibility of hearing appeals
in City Code Titles 16 and 17. The Hearing Examiner is scheduled to meet on the third
Monday of each month.
ORDINANCE NO. 24-02 - AN ORDINANCE AMENDING PULLMAN CITY CODE
SECTIONS 2.10 AND 2.15 AS IT RELATES TO APPEALS OF THE
CONSTRUCTION CODE.
Motion by Eric Fejeran, second by Nathan Weller.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira

Action, Motions, Ordinances: 3.
Mayor Benjamin asked the following Appearance of Fairness Questions.
1.

Does any member of this Council have knowledge of having conducted business
with either the proponents or the opponents in this proceeding?

2.

Has any member of this Council communicated with any proponent or opponent
regarding the proposal that is the subject of this proceeding?

3.

Does any member of this Council have either a financial or personal interest in the
outcome of this proceeding?

4.

Does any member of this Council know whether or not their employer has a
financial interest in this matter, or has an interest in the outcome of this
proceeding?

5.

Does any member of this Council live or own property within 300 feet of the area
which is the subject of this proceeding?

6.

Does any member of this Council have any special knowledge about the substance
or the merits of this proceeding which would or could cause the Councilmember to
prejudge the outcome of this proceeding?

7.

Is there any member of this Council who believes that he or she cannot sit and
hear this matter fairly and impartially, both as to the respective positions of the
proponents and the opponents in this proceeding?

8.

Is there any member of the audience who, because of the “Appearance of Fairness
Doctrine,” wishes to disqualify any member of this Council from hearing this
matter? If so, please state the name of the Councilmember and the reason or
reasons why you believe that member should be disqualified because of the
“Appearance of Fairness Doctrine.”

The Mayor and all Councilmembers answered “no” to all eight questions.
There were no objections from the audience.
Community Development Director RJ Lott explained the proposed ordinance involves a
zone change of 21,362 square feet from R-4 High-Density Multi-Family Residential to C3 General Commercial. The applicant has not indicated a future use at the northwest
corner of NE Terre View Drive and NE Northwood Drive. The location under consideration
is owned by Tim Campbell, who Scott Sumner of Syntier Engineering represents.
The Planning Commission held a public hearing on this item on November 29, 2023. Scott
Sumner heard the applicant’s testimony. Allision Munch-Rotolo, representing the College
Hill Association, heard additional testimony supporting the zone change. In addition,
Munch-Rotolo did submit a letter of support dated November 21, 2023. There was no
testimony from neutral parties or those in opposition to the zone change. The Planning
Commission voted unanimously in favor of a recommendation of approval.
ORDINANCE NO. 24-03 - AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE ZONE
CLASSIFICATION FROM R-4 HIGH-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL TO C-3 GENERAL
COMMERCIAL FOR THE REAL ESTATE LOCATED AT THE NORTHWEST
CORNER OF THE INTERSECTION OF NE TERRE VIEW DRIVE AND NE
NORTHWOOD DRIVE, CONTAINING 21,362 SQUARE FEET.
Motion by Nathan Weller, second by Carla De Lira.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
Action, Motions, Resolutions: 4.

Mayor Benjamin asked the Appearance of Fairness Questions as done previously with
Ordinance No. 24-03.
The Mayor and all Councilmembers answered “no” to all eight questions. There were no
objections from the audience.
Community Development Director RJ Lott explained this agenda item is not a duplicate
of the previous item for a proposed zone change but rather a separate item that requires
a motion to approve the amendment of the Comprehensive Plan Map from High-Density
Residential to Commercial for approximately 31,362 square feet located northwest of the
intersection of NE Terre View Drive and NE Northwood Drive. The location is currently
undeveloped.
The Planning Commission held a public hearing on this item on November 29, 2023.
Applicant testimony was heard from Scott Sumner of Syntier Engineering, who was acting
as an agent for the property owner. One other individual spoke in favor, while four
individuals spoke in opposition. The Planning Commission voted unanimously in favor of
a recommendation for approval.
RESOLUTION NO. R-03-24 - A RESOLUTION AMENDING THE OFFICIAL
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MAP OF THE CITY OF PULLMAN FROM HIGHDENSITY RESIDENTIAL TO COMMERCIAL FOR THE REAL ESTATE HEREIN
DESCRIBED LOCATED AT THE NORTHWEST CORNER OF NE TERRE VIEW
DRIVE AND NE NORTHWOOD DRIVE, CONTAINING 21,362 SQUARE FEET.
Motion by Pat Wright, second by Megan Guido.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
Action, Motions, Resolutions: 5.
Engineer Technician Edward Ranck-Copher stated that the preliminary plan for
Sunnyside Height Subdivision No. 13 was to divide approximately 10.8 acres into 35
lots and public streets. This Subdivision is located southwest of Sunnyside Park, north
of Center Street, and east of Windy Point Court. Please see the attached Exhibit 1 for
the location map of this preliminary plat. The preliminary plat for this property was
approved with sixteen (16) conditions by Council Resolution R-28-21 on April 29,
2021. All applicable construction and design conditions are being satisfied with this plat
and the construction of related improvements. Condition No. 16, “a new and unique plat
name and number,” was not enforced due to the preliminary plat being approved as
Sunnyside Heights No. 13.
The developer is choosing to finalize plating this property in phases. This, the first
phase, Sunnyside Heights Subdivision No. 13, includes 6.4 acres with twenty (20)
building lots, one (1) non-buildable lot dedicated to the City of Pullman for stormwater
utilities, and a continuation of Panorama Drive. The future second phase, presumed to
be Sunnyside Heights Subdivision No. 14, shall include 4.4 acres with fifteen (15)
building lots and the continuation of Panorama Drive to its point of connection with the
existing Panorama Drive being a part of Whispering Hills Subdivision No. 8.
To guarantee the construction of improvements for Sunnyside Heights Subdivision No.
13 and to appropriately warrant the maintenance of improvements, the developer has
been notified of the security that will be required. A copy of that Letter of Direction is
attached for reference. This Subdivision was vested in 2021 at the time of the
preliminary plat. Therefore, the developer falls under the 2018 Pullman design
standards, which change the time limit to construct all subdivision sidewalks from three
years to one year.
RESOLUTION NO. R-04-24 - A RESOLUTION APPROVING THE FINAL PLAT
OF SUNNYSIDE HEIGHTS SUBDIVISION NO. 13 AND AUTHORIZING THE
MAYOR AND THE FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES DIRECTOR
TO SIGN THE FINAL PLAT.

Motion by Nathan Weller, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
I. Discussion Items
WaterSMART Water & Energy Efficiency Grant Application FY2024 for Citywide
Upgrade to Advanced Metering Infrastructure
Grants & Special Project Manager Valerie Weaver explained WaterSMART (Sustain and
Manage America’s Resources for Tomorrow), the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, provides
financial assistance for projects that conserve and use water more efficiently, implement
renewable energy, investigate and develop water marketing strategies, mitigate the risk
of future water conflict, and accomplish other benefits that contribute to sustainability in
the western United States. WaterSMART Water and Energy Efficiency Grants focus on
projects that result in quantifiable and sustained water savings, and replacing existing
meters with Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) technology is one of the eligible
water-saving project types.
The City has been planning a citywide upgrade to AMI technology, and the project is in
the Capital Improvement Program (CIP), planned to be partially grant-funded. Advanced
Metering Infrastructure provides a fully interconnected system that gives real-time water
usage data to staff and customers instead of once-a-month readings. AMI technology will
lead to more accurate water billing and significant water conservation through timely leak
detection and customer awareness. This project is essential to the City’s efforts to
stabilize the region’s precious water supply from the Grande Ronde Aquifer. It will also
reduce greenhouse gas emissions from vehicle miles driven for meter reads and by
increasing the energy efficiency of the water system.
The Notice of Funding Opportunity for the latest cycle of the WaterSMART grant was
posted on November 14, 2023, and the closing date for Fiscal Year 2024 applications is
February 22, 2024. The grant requires a 50% cost share of the total project cost.
Selections will be announced this summer, followed by an anticipated award date of
December 31, 2024. The Bureau of Reclamation expects to choose approximately 40-50
projects for grant awards for this application period. The grant has different funding levels,
with a maximum award ceiling of $5,000,000 per agreement for projects that may take up
to 3 years to complete.
At the time of the City’s last grant application in July 2022, the total project cost was
estimated at 3.5 million dollars. Staff feels this opportunity is worth pursuing to leverage
existing CIP funds and share half of this planned project’s cost with federal funds. Grant
funding will allow the City to hire a contractor to install the devices to complete the project
much earlier than using in-house resources experiencing capacity issues.
Staff is planning to pursue this grant opportunity and proposes to bring forth the draft
application to the City Council for authorization on the Consent Agenda at their February
13th Council meeting, ahead of the grant submission deadline of February 22 if so
directed. City Staff had unsuccessfully applied for this grant twice before but received
valuable feedback and reinforced the project with lots of attention and work being
contributed by Public Works Director Sean Wells, Maintenance & Operations Supervisor
Art Garro, Deputy Public Works Director Clayton Forsmann, Development Engineer Scott
Palmer, and Grants & Special Projects Manager Valerie Weaver.
The City Council directed staff to move forward with the grant application and return to
the City Council for authorization at their February 13, 2024, Council meeting.
Discussion: 2. City Council Agendas
City Administrator Mike Urban explained In 2021, a City Council goal was to modernize
boards, commissions, and committees. From that original goal-setting meeting, the
discussion included the order of the City Council agenda.

Emails were sent to the City Council that included sample agendas from eight different
cities to demonstrate a variety of meeting structures.
The City Council discussed the agenda order and requested that City Administrator Mike
Urban bring back a resolution with the proposed changes for adoption.
J. New Business.
City Administrator Mike Urban stated that over the last week, we’ve been getting some
questions regarding the big downtown bid, particularly the bid schedule. City staff has
been having conversations with prime contractors. City Staff had the pre-bid meeting
today, January 9, 2024, at 10 a.m. A couple of the prime contractors came in and said,
this is a great project, and we’re very interested in giving you a competitive bid, but the
holidays put us behind schedule. I wanted to let the Council know that that discussion has
come from the reputable contractors we know very well. I wanted to see if that was a
concern enough to have us slide the bid date back and give them an extra week, which
is what we’re hearing, or if you wanted us to charge ahead at the same speed we’re going.
A motion to move the Project Downtown bid opening date one week, from January 18,
2024, to January 25, 2024, and 10 a.m.
Motion by Ann Parks, second by Nathan Weller.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
Councilmember Ann Parks moved to hold a Special Meeting on February 6, 2024, at noon
to award the contract for the Downtown Project.
Motion by Ann Parks, second by Pat Wright.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: Ann Parks, Nathan Weller, Pat Wright, Megan Guido, Eric Fejeran, Carla De Lira
Pullman Resident and Downtown Business Owner CJ Robert spoke to the Council about
the impact the Downtown Pullman Project will have on her businesses. She asked the
Council to address the downtown business owners’ concerns and have a plan to mitigate
the negative impacts on the downtown businesses.
K. Adjournment.
Mayor Benjamin adjourned the regular meeting of Pullman City Council at 8:22 p.m.

________________________
City Clerk Dee Stiles-Elliott

