CITY OF PULLMAN
PLANNING COMMISSION
Special Meeting Minutes
November 29, 2023
The City of Pullman Planning Commission held a special meeting at 7:00 p.m. on Wednesday,
November 29, 2023, in Council Chambers, City Hall, 190 SE Crestview, Building A, Pullman,
Washington with Chair John Anderson presiding.
ROLL CALL:
Present: Anderson, Joswig-Jones, Taylor, O’English,
Absent: Carper, Hodge, O’Callaghan
Staff:
Lott, Goodwater

ANDERSON

Called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and called roll.

MOTION

Taylor moved to approve the regular meeting minutes of
October 25, 2023 as prepared by staff. Seconded by
O’English and passed unanimously.

REGULAR BUSINESS
QUASI-JUDICIAL HEARING
Conduct simultaneous public
hearings to review and
recommend action on the
proposed zone change and
Comprehensive Plan Land Use
Plan Map amendment involving
the rezoning of 21,362 square feet
located in the northwest corner of
the intersection of NE Terre View
Drive and NE Northwood Drive.

Anderson read the rules of procedure for quasi-judicial
public hearings, administered the oath or affirmation to
members of the public who wished to speak, and qualified all
Commissioners.

ANDERSON

Opened the public comment portion of the hearing and called
for proponents.

PROPONENT
SCOTT SUMNER
106 S. Hayes Street
Moscow, ID 83843

Sumner introduced himself as speaking on behalf of the
property owner, Tim Campbell. Campbell thought this piece
was included in the rezoned property to the west, and opined
that this property would be better utilized as commercial
instead of residential. Answered questions from the
Commission about potential commercial development of the
subject property, and ownership of the commercial property
to the west as well the subject property.

Lott provided a summary of the Staff Report and answered
questions about the existing C3 zone to the west of the
subject property.

Planning Commission
Special Meeting Minutes

November 29, 2023
Page 2 of 3

PROPONENT
ALLISON MUNCH-ROTOLO
635 NE Illinois Street
Pullman, WA 99163

Munch-Rotolo introduced herself as the signer of the letter
sent in from the College Hill Association in support of the
project, the walkability, and businesses it will bring to the in
the area.

ANDERSON

Called for opponents and neutral parties. As none presented
he concluded the public testimony portion of the hearing.

DISCUSSION

The Commission discussed the benefit of commercial in the
area, and walkability.
Lott said that the proposed zone allows for any kind of retail;
Wal-Mart size down to very small businesses such as coffee
stands.
Commissioners asked that the staff report heading “Finding
of Fact” be changed to “Statements”, and O’English
suggested that future staff reports be changed to say
something such as, “staff sees there are elements of this that
mesh with the comprehensive plan” instead of “makes an
effective argument”.

MOTION

In the matter of Resolution PC-2023-11, Taylor moved to
adopt Findings of Fact 1-24 with proposed revision to
Statements 1-24. Seconded by O’English and passed
unanimously.

MOTION

In the matter of Resolution PC-2023-11, O’English moved
to adopt Conclusions 1-10 as prepared by staff. Seconded by
Taylor and passed unanimously.

MOTION

In the matter of PC-2023-11, O’English moved that the
Commission adopt as its formal decision that the proposed
amendment of the Comprehensive Plan Land Use Map be
forwarded to the City Council with a recommendation for
approval. Seconded by Taylor and passed unanimously by
roll call vote.

MOTION

In the matter of Resolution PC-2023-12, Taylor moved to
adopt Findings of Fact 1-24 with proposed revisions to
Statements 1-24. Seconded by O’English and passed
unanimously.

MOTION

In the matter of Resolution PC-2023-11, O’English moved
to adopt Conclusions 1-10 as prepared by staff. Seconded by
Taylor and passed unanimously.

Planning Commission
Special Meeting Minutes

November 29, 2023
Page 3 of 3

MOTION

In the matter of PC-2023-12, Taylor moved that the
Commission adopt as its formal decision that the proposed
zone change be forwarded to the City Council with a
recommendation for approval. Seconded by O’English and
passed unanimously by roll call vote.

UPCOMING MEETINGS

December 27, 2023 – Will be cancelled; no business.
January 24, 2024 – No conflicts noted.
February 28, 2024 – No conflicts noted

MOTION

Taylor moved to adjourn the meeting. Seconded by
O’English and passed unanimously.

ADJOURNMENT

The meeting was adjourned at 7:30 p.m.

ATTEST:

Chair

Community Development Director

Secretary

