Docusign Envelope ID: 252090AE-F8BC-4EEF-9C83-28847EB5C336
8/27/24, 9:19 AM

BoardDocs® Pro

BATTLE GROUND PUBLIC SCHOOLS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Regular Meeting
July 22, 2024
6:00 PM
Lewisville Campus
406 NW Fifth Avenue
Battle Ground, WA 98604
MINUTES
Members and Administrators present:
Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux, Denny Waters and Shelly Whitten
Student Representatives present:
Julia Stiffler and Itzel Contreras Montiel
Recorder:
Executive Administrative Assistant to the Superintendent, Lisa Randle
Staff/Attendees: 29
1. Call to Order
President Maddux called this meeting to order at 6:00 PM
2. Pledge of Allegiance
Julia Stiffler led the crowd in the pledge of allegiance.
3. Roll Call
Lisa Randle called the board members roll. There was a quorum.
4. Agenda Approval (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Agenda Approval
Motion by Mary Snitily, The Board of Directors approve the agenda as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Julia Stiffler
5. Oath of Office for Student Representative
A. Itzel Contreras Montiel, Student Representative - Denny Waters
Itzel Contreras Montiel recited the Oath of Office to accept her position as a Student Representative on the Board of Directors.
6. Communications
A. Committee Reports
Legislative Committee
Director Snitily provided information on the positions filed and the amendments due this month. Mary and Terry will
attend the General Assembly virtually the last weekend in September.
Audit Committee Report
Director Johnson stated that the committee reviewed budget reports, the superintendent's timesheet, accounts payable,
and payroll. She noted that everything was in order.
Battle Ground Education Foundation (BGeF)
There was not a BGeF report.
Washington Interscholastic Activities Association (WIAA) Committee
There was not a WIAA report. August 17, 2024, is the next meeting.
Washington State School Directors' Association (WSSDA) Updates
President Maddux let the board know she sent them all an article via email about Board success and reminded the
members to read it.
B. Director Reports
The Board, Superintendent Waters, and Deputy Superintendent Whitten discussed the 2021 Policy and Procedures, HB 2331,
Response.

https://go.boarddocs.com/wa/bgps/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#

1/3

Docusign Envelope ID: 252090AE-F8BC-4EEF-9C83-28847EB5C336
8/27/24, 9:19 AM

BoardDocs® Pro

The Board discussed the change they made to the Citizen's Comments directions, which are read before citizens address the
Board.
7. Superintendent and Staff Updates
A. Superintendent Report - Denny Waters
No report given
B. Teaching and Learning Report - Shelly Whitten
No report given
C. Human Resources Report - Michelle Reinhardt
No report given
D. Finance Report - Michelle Scott
No report given
E. Operations Report - Kevin Jolma
Kevin Jolma updated the board on all summer projects.
F. Communications Report - Amanda Richter
Amanda Richter shared the awards the Communication department received at the NSPRA conference.
8. Citizens' Comments
The following citizens spoke about concerns around policy and procedure 2021.
Joey DeRuitz
Tyler Long
Justin Hornbaker
Jennifer Heine- Withee
Brandon Miller
The following citizens spoke in favor of the current policy and procedure 2021.
Aly Strappazon
Eunice Ingermanson
Jessica Cole reminded the Board about the National Night Out on Tuesday, August 6, at Kiwanis Park.
Wynn Greich - COVID-19 Vaccine Lawsuit in Texas
9. Consent Agenda (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Approval of Consent Agenda
Motion by Mary Snitily, The Board of Directors approve the Consent Agenda as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Julia Stiffler, Itzel Contreras Moniel
B. Approval of Minutes - June 24, 2024 Regular Meeting
C. Approval of Minutes - June 27, 2024 - Special Meeting - Board Retreat
D. Business and Operations
E. Personnel Reports
F. Financial Reports
G. Completed Projects Request for Approval
H. Approval of High School Child Development (CTE) Curriculum
10. Old Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
No old business
11. New Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Approval of Food Services Management Contract 2425-01 - Michelle Scott
Darcy Spierkman presented for Michelle Scott, who is out on medical leave.
Motion by Ted Champine, The Board of Directors approve the food services management contract with
Chartwells for the 2024-25 school year and authorize the chief financial officer to sign the contract on behalf
of the board.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Julia Stiffler, Itzel Contreras Moniel
Recess was called at 8:41 PM for a 5-minute break.
https://go.boarddocs.com/wa/bgps/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#

2/3

Docusign Envelope ID: 252090AE-F8BC-4EEF-9C83-28847EB5C336
8/27/24, 9:19 AM

BoardDocs® Pro

B. First Reading of Curriculum Proposal for River HomeLink, Mathematics, Grade K-8 - Allison Tuchardt
Allison Tuchardt and a team of teachers from River HomeLink presented and answered questions on the Go Math curriculum.
Motion by Debbie Johnson, The Board of Directors accept the first reading of the recommended curriculum
for Grades K-6. Go Math HMH Publishers. Copyright 2018. This is a 6-year adoption and Grades 7-8. Go Math
HMH Publishers. Copyright 2018. This is a 1-year adoption.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Julia Stiffler, Itzel Contreras Moniel
C. Confirmation of Instructional Materials Committee Replacement Staff Members - Allison Tuchardt
Allison Tuchardt explained that two staff members who were on the IMC had retired, and they had two new staff members to
join.
Motion by Terry Tate, The Board approve Susan Smith and Jen Havig as new staff members of the IMC.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Julia Stiffler, Itzel Contreras Moniel
D. Revision of Policy 2022 | Electric Resources and Internet Safety - Scott McDaniel
Motion by Mary Snitily, The Board of Directors approve the revisions to Policy 2022 Electronic Resources and
Internet Safety.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Julia Stiffler, Itzel Contreras Moniel
E. Revision of Policy 2023 | Digital Citizenship and Media Literacy - Scott McDaniel
Motion by Ted Champine, The Board of Directors approve revisions to Policy 2023 Digital Citizenship and
Media Literacy.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Julia Stiffler, Itzel Contreras Moniel
F. Revision of Policy 2121 | Substance Abuse Program - Tamra Scheetz
Motion by Debbie Johnson, The Board of Directors approve the revisions to Policy 2121 | Substance Abuse
Program
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Julia Stiffler, Itzel Contreras Moniel
12. Future Agenda Items and Board Events

Director Maddux reviewed the board's upcoming events.
13. Adjournment
President Maddux adjourned the meeting at 9:21 PM.
Approved: August 12, 2024

Board President

Board Secretary

https://go.boarddocs.com/wa/bgps/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#

3/3

