BATTLE GROUND PUBLIC SCHOOLS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
  Regular Meeting
October 14, 2024 
6:00 PM
  Lewisville Campus
406 NW Fifth Avenue
Battle Ground, WA 98604
  MINUTES
  Members and Administrators present:
Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux, Denny Waters and Shelly Whitten
  Members and Administrators absent:
Ted Champine
  Student Representatives present:
Julia Stiffler, Itzel Contreras Montiel
  Recorder: 
Executive Administrative Assistant to the Superintendent, Lisa Randle
  Staff/Attendees: 31
  1. Call to Order
President Maddux called the meeting to order at 6:00 PM
  2. Pledge of Allegiance
Student Representative Julia Stiffler led the meeting in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  3. Roll Call
Lisa Randle called the roll of the Board.
  Director Champine had a prearranged absence.
  Motion by Mary Snitily, Madam President, I move that we excuse Ted Champine from the meeting.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
  4. Agenda Approval (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Agenda Approval
  Student Representatives: Julia Stiffler Pro, Itzel Contreras Montiel Pro.
  Motion by Terry Tate, The Board of Directors approve the agenda as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Terry Tate, Jackie
  5. Communications
A. Student Voice
  Tukes Valley Middle School students Kylie Burleson and Josephine Malvini shared upcoming events and what they enjoyed about their school.  The board asked clarifying questions.
  Student Representative Itzel Contreras Montiel updated the board on Prairie High School events that have occurred since the last board meeting - Homecoming Spirit Week, Assembly, Halftime Show, and Dance were student-led this year, and there was positive feedback.

Student Representative Julia Stiffler updated the board on River HomeLink events that have occurred since the last board meeting - Assemblies, positive feedback, and Escape Room were the most attended events. Coming up: Fall Dance and Spirit Week.  Julie also thanked the crossing guards for all they do for students and staff in the district.
  B. Committee Reports
  Legislative Committee
Director Snitily read the board priorities for the Legislative Committee positions.
  Audit Committee Report
The next meeting is on October 22
  Battle Ground Education Foundation (BGeF)
Director Tate updated the board on the Annual Auction Dinner and events.
  Tours Committee
The next tour will be on October 25 at Pleasant Valley Primary.
    C. Director Reports
Vice President Snitily reminded board members to please vote for WSSDA positions and shared that a new directors webinar is on October 15 at noon.

President Maddux reported on the Citizen's Advisory Committee meeting she and Director Champine attended on Thursday, October 10.

Director Johnson advised the board that she would be a member of the SEL curriculum committee and shared her understanding of the AWARE grant.  The board asked clarifying questions.
  6. Superintendent and Staff Updates
A. Superintendent Report - Denny Waters
Superintendent Waters reviewed the AWARE grant's timeline and clarified what the grant's purpose is.
  B. Teaching and Learning Report - Shelly Whitten
Director of Student Supports Tamra Scheetz introduced the following Prevention Intervention Specialists: Kari Koller-Oberg, Amy Warnke, and Kristen McHenry. She explained their role in helping prevent and reduce alcohol, tobacco, and drug use among our students and a positive school climate.

Director of Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment Allison Tuchard and Administrative Assistant of Assessment Lacey Marsolek reported on assessment data.
  C. Human Resources Report - Michelle Reinhardt
No report
  D. Finance Report - Michelle Scott
CFO Michelle Scott let the board know the enrollment is up 100+ FTE.  
  E. Operations Report - Kevin Jolma
Executive Director of Operations Kevin Jolma updated the board on current and completed projects in the district. 
  F. Communications Report - Amanda Richter
Director of Communications and Community Engagement Amanda Richter updated the board on current and upcoming events that will be happening in the district.
  7. Citizens' Comments
A. Citizens' Comments
  The following citizens addressed the Board of Directors.
  Laurel Pascual - Section 1466A
Wynn Girsch - Flouride
Eunice Ingermanson - LGBTQ+
Aly Strappazon - Indigenous People month
Jershiah Green - T SEL
Rachel Greenway - Sex Ed
Jennifer Heine-Withee - PIs, CASEL
Jessica Cole - Dream Team, Prevent Coalition Pickle Ball Tournament fundraiser


8. Consent Agenda (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Approval of Consent Agenda
  Student Representatives: Julia Stiffler Pro, Itzel Contreras Montiel Pro.
  Motion by Terry Tate, The Board of Directors approve the Consent Agenda as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 3-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Terry Tate
Abstain: Jackie Maddux

  B. Approval of Minutes - September 23, 2024 Special Meeting
C. Approval of Minutes - September 23, 2024 Regular Meeting
D. Personnel Reports
E. Student Travel
F. Completed Projects Request for Approval
G. Approval of Resolution No. F- 24; Cancellation of Outstanding Warrants
H. Islam Family Foundation Donation
I. Sunbelt Staffing, LLC
  9. Old Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
No old business
  10. New Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Retire Policy 5612, Temporary Administrators
Deputy Superintendent Whitten asked the board to retire Policy 5612 because it is redundant with Policy 5001, Hiring Retired School Employees.
  Student Representatives: Julia Stiffler Pro, Itzel Contreras Montiel Pro.
  Motion by Mary Snitily, The Board of Directors approve the Retirement of Policy 5612: Temporary Administrators.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux

B. Revision of Policy 6220, Bid or Request for Proposal Requirements
CFO Michelle Scott asked the board for approval of the changes made to Policy 6220 due to a change in statutory law under Senate Bill 5268.
  Student Representatives: Julia Stiffler Pro, Itzel Contreras Montiel Pro.
  Motion by Debbie Johnson, The Board of Directors to approve the revisions to Policy 6220 Bid or Request for Proposal Requirements
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux

11. Future Agenda Items and Board Events
A. Future Agenda Items and Board Events
President Maddux went over the board's upcoming events.
  12. Executive Session
A. Personnel RCW 42.30.110 (1)(g)- No Action
The board entered an executive session at 8:25 PM to discuss personnel per RCW 42.30.110(1)(g), with no action for 15 minutes, returning at 8:40 PM.  President Maddux extended the executive session for an additional 5 minutes to return at 8:45 PM.
  13. Adjournment
A. Adjournment
President Maddux adjourned the meeting at 8:45 PM
  APPROVED: October 28, 2024
        Board President
        Board Secretary