Docusign Envelope ID: 252090AE-F8BC-4EEF-9C83-28847EB5C336
8/27/24, 9:12 AM

BoardDocs® Pro

BATTLE GROUND PUBLIC SCHOOLS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Regular Meeting
May 13, 2024
6:00 P.M.
Lewisville Campus
406 NW Fifth Ave
Battle Ground, WA 98604

MINUTES

Members present
Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Jackie Maddux, Terry Tate
Student Representatives present:
Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Administrators present:
Superintendent Denny Waters, Deputy Superintendent Shelly Whitten
Recorder:
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and Board of Directors Lisa Randle
Patron/Staff: 48
1. Call to Order
President Maddux called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
2. Pledge of Allegiance
Student Representative Stiffler lead the crowd in the pledge of allegiance.
3. Roll Call
Lisa Randle called the roll of the board member. All members were present. There was a quorum.
4. Agenda Approval (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
Director Maddux read the agenda categories out loud. There were no comments or questions from the
board members.
Motion by Ted Champine, The Board of Directors approve the agenda as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Jackie Maddux, Terry Tate
5. Communications
A. Student Voice
Daybreak Primary Transitional Kindergarten students came and shared their favorite things about their school.
Ruth Sprenger & Itzel Contreras Montiel from PHS came to give the board an update on past and upcoming events.
Louie Ledbury & Mylee Palmeer from BGHS came to give the board an update on past and upcoming events.
E. Committee Report
Legislative Committee
Director Snitily reported that the network calls have been moved to once a month on Tuesdays.
Audit Committee Report
Director Champine provided details of the audit committee meeting he attended. Several vouchers were pulled and all
were found to be in order.
https://go.boarddocs.com/wa/bgps/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#

1/5

Docusign Envelope ID: 252090AE-F8BC-4EEF-9C83-28847EB5C336
8/27/24, 9:12 AM

BoardDocs® Pro

Battle Ground Education Foundation (BGeF)
Director Johnson reported that the BGeF 30th-year celebration was a success and well attended.
Washington Interscholastic Activities Association (WIAA) Committee
Director Champine said his next meeting is May 16, 2024.
Washington State School Directors' Association (WSSDA) Updates
Director Snitily recommended the board watch the Chris Reykdal interview on the WSSDA website,
Tours Committee
The board members provided highlights from their specific group's tour. The schools toured were Tukes Valley Middle
School and Summit View High School.
F. Director Reports
The board members provided highlights from events they have attended.
6. Superintendent and Staff Updates
A. Superintendent Report - Denny Waters
Superintendent Waters thanked Sodexo for all the great school BBQs they are putting on and recognized it was Teacher
Appreciation Week.
B. Teaching and Learning Report - Shelly Whitten
There was no Teaching and Learning update.
C. Human Resources Report - Michelle Reinhardt
Executive Director of Human Resources recognized retirees who had 20+ years with the district.
D. Finance Report - Michelle Scott
CFO Michelle Scott shared she has joined the WASBO Board of Directors for a three-year term.
E. Operations Report - Kevin Jolma
There was no Operations update
F. Communications Report - Amanda Richter
There was no Communication Report
7. Citizens' Comments
Eunice Ingermenson spoke about equity for LBGTQ+
Wynn Greich spoke about ingredients
8. Consent Agenda (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Approval of Consent Agenda
President Maddux read the Consent Agenda items out loud. There were no comments or questions from the
board members.
B. Approval of Minutes - April 22, 2024 Regular Board Meeting
C. Business and Operations
D. Personnel Reports
E. Student Travel
F. Financial Reports
G. Completed Projects Request for Approval
Motion by Ted Champine The Board of Directors approve the Consent Agenda as presented.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Jackie Maddux, Terry Tate
9. Old Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
There was no old business.
10. New Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Approval of Resolution D-24, Intent to Adopt a Modified Educational Program - Michelle Reinhardt
The administration has reviewed the staffing needs in the district. The district has several Career and Technical Education
(CTE) classes that are not needed based on student forecasting requests for the 2024-2025 school year. A total of 0.8 CTE
classes are eliminated as described in Exhibit #1, for the 2024-2025 school year. The superintendent is directed to take all

https://go.boarddocs.com/wa/bgps/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#

2/5

Docusign Envelope ID: 252090AE-F8BC-4EEF-9C83-28847EB5C336
8/27/24, 9:12 AM

BoardDocs® Pro

steps legally required to notify staff and to take personnel action necessary to facilitate the change in the District's programs and
staffing by the statutory deadline of May 15th.
Motion by Ted Champine The Board of Directors approve Resolution D-24 as presented.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Jackie Maddux, Terry Tate
B. Revision of Policy 2420 Grading and Progress Reports - Travis Drake
As a system, we need to be able to have data that allows us to determine whether or not a student is being successful in order
to develop effective interventions. Our current grading policy for secondary is too broad, making it difficult to utilize grades in
this manner. The revision of 2420 does the following:
1. Connect the grade to the essential standards;
2. Develop a sense of consistency in our grading practices, specifically between ‘like’ classes;
3. Specify the frequency in which we communicate our grades;
4. Specify grades 9-12th.

Motion by Mary Snitily The Board of Directors approve the revision of policy 2420 Grading and Progress
Reports as presented.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Jackie Maddux, Terry Tate
C. Approval to bid on the Central Operations Building Project - Kevin Jolma
This project will construct a new 23,125-square-foot Maintenance Facility as well as expand the existing Warehouse space by
50 percent. The Maintenance Department is currently located in a 1932 converted Bus Barn that is well past its useful life. In
addition, the Warehouse is at capacity with the growth the District has experienced.
The new site will move our Operations from the BGHS parking lot on Main Street to the site of the old Central building that was
demolished in 2012. This is next to our existing Warehouse.
The District routinely utilizes our Small Works bidding process (which does not require advertising) for projects less than
$350,000. This project is estimated to be approximately $7.7 Million and therefore needs to be publicly advertised and bid.
RCW 28A.335.190 requires the district to advertise for furniture, supplies, equipment, building, improvements or repairs, or
other work or purchases, except books whenever the estimated cost is in excess of $75,000. The advertisement must
be published in at least one newspaper of general circulation within the district, once each week for two consecutive weeks.
After the project bids, the Board will then need to approve the award of contract. The project is in our Capital Facilities Plan and
is funded by Impact Fees.
Motion by Ted Champine The Board of Directors approve the bid on the Central Operations Building Project as
presented.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Jackie Maddux, Terry Tate
D. First Reading of High School Science Curriculum - Allison Tuchard & Dave Cresap
The adoption of the High School Science curriculum is a subcategory of the 6-12 Science adoption. Previously, 6-8 science and
high school advanced placement science have been brought (and approved) by the School Board. Of the courses presented
today, the first three are general science courses and the fourth is a Career and Technical Education (CTE) science course.
Curricula for other science courses are still in process.
Chemistry: World of Chemistry. National Geographic/Cengage. Copyright 2021.
Earth and Space Science: Earth + Space Science. National Geographic/Cengage.Copyright 2022.
Environmental Science: Environmental Science: Your World, Your Turn. Savvas. Copyright 2021.
Horticulture: Horticulture Today. Goodheart-Wilcox. Copyright 2023.
Motion by Debbie Johnson The Board of Directors accepts the First Reading of the recommended curriculum
for High School Science as presented.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
https://go.boarddocs.com/wa/bgps/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#

3/5

Docusign Envelope ID: 252090AE-F8BC-4EEF-9C83-28847EB5C336
8/27/24, 9:12 AM

BoardDocs® Pro

Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Jackie Maddux, Terry Tate
E. Resolution C-24 Requesting a Waiver of the 180-day School Requirement for the 2024-2025 School Year - David
Kennedy
The waiver days during the 2023-24 school year have propelled staff skills in the collaboration process to improve student
learning. There were at least three standards completed by teams. Time to continue with more standards is needed.
This proposal replaces two previously calendared late start Wednesdays and continues to provide more time than is required for
instructional minutes in RCW 28A.150.220(2).
These waiver days will continue to provide classified staff an opportunity for professional development within their workday
without additional cost to the district. For some of our classified employees, this training is mandatory to their job responsibilities,
yet no options currently exist to provide time within the calendar to meet these requirements.
To apply for this waiver, Battle Ground Public Schools is required to submit a proposal to the Office of Superintendent of Public
Instruction (OSPI). Our focus on October 30 and January 29 will be to continue unpacking essential standards, planning
instruction, and aligning curricular resources, saving late start Wednesdays for data analysis and planning for interventions and
enhancement. The waiver days will provide collaborative teams time to work interdependently to achieve common goals linked
to the purpose of learning for all.
Motion by Terry Tate The Board of Directors approve the submittal of the 180-Day Waiver as presented.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Jackie Maddux, Terry Tate
F. Revision of Policy 2004 Accountability Goals - David Kennedy
The revision of this policy involved a shift in its name from "Accountability Goals" to "Performance Improvement Goals" to align
with the legal requirements. Additionally, the policy now consistently refers to federal requirements in line with the regulation
cited in the policy.
Motion by Terry Tate The Board of Directors approve the revisions to Policy 2004 Performance Improvement
Goals as presented.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Jackie Maddux, Terry Tate
G. Retire Policy 2090 Program Evaluation - Shelly Whitten
Policy 2090 has been changed from essential to encouraged as boards are not explicitly required to adopt the policy. The policy
describes the expectation for districts to report classroom-based assessment (CBA) data to OSPI, which would not change. This
policy reads like the job description of our Director of Curriculum and Assessment and would remain as such. The focus of
reports to the board would continue yet alignment would be directly tied to school improvement plans, the strategic plan, and the
board goals.
Motion by Mary Snitily The Board of Directors approve the Retirement of Policy 2090, Program Evaluation as
presented,
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Jackie Maddux, Terry Tate
H. Approval of Purchase for 1,500 Dell 3120 Chromebooks and Google Licenses - Scott McDaniel
The Department of Technology Services would like to purchase 1,500 Dell 3120 Chromebooks and Google perpetual licenses to
provide to incoming students. The district has a contract with Dell NASPO Computer Equipment PA - Washington Contract
Code C000001119005 Customer Agreement # 23026 / 05820. The purchase will supply additional Chromebooks for classroom
carts as well as the 1:1 program for grades 6-12.
This purchase will use the Levy-funded Technology budget.
Motion by Debbie Johnson The Board of Directors approves the purchase of 1,500 Dell 3110 Chromebooks and
Google Licenses for $424,957.23 as presented
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Jackie Maddux, Terry Tate
I. Approval of Purchase for CrowdStrike Cybersecurity Services - Scott McDaniel
CrowdStrike is a cybersecurity service for the protection of servers and workstations. The platform leverages artificial
intelligence to offer real-time threat detection, automated response, and proactive hunting to safeguard organizations against
modern cyber threats. Additionally, CrowdStrike provides threat intelligence and incident response services. CrowdStrike will
https://go.boarddocs.com/wa/bgps/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#

4/5

Docusign Envelope ID: 252090AE-F8BC-4EEF-9C83-28847EB5C336
8/27/24, 9:12 AM

BoardDocs® Pro

replace our current endpoint protection platform.
This purchase will use the Levy-funded Technology budget.
Motion by Debbie Johnson The Board of Directors approves the purchase of CrowdStrike for the cybersecurity
protection of servers and workstations.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Jackie Maddux, Terry Tate
11. Future Agenda Items and Board Events
Upcoming Events:
School BBQs
Board Tours
Graduations
12. Adjournment
President Maddux adjourned the meeting at 8:16 PM

APPROVED: MAY 28, 2024

BOARD PRESIDENT

https://go.boarddocs.com/wa/bgps/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#

BOARD SECRETARY

5/5

