BATTLE GROUND PUBLIC SCHOOLS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
  Regular Meeting
March 25, 2024
6:00 P.M.
  Lewisville Campus
406 NW Fifth Avenue
Battle Ground, WA
  MINUTES
Members present:
Mary Snitily, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
  Member excused:
Debbie Johnson
  Student representatives present:
Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
  Administrators present:
Superintendent Denny Waters, Deputy Superintendent Shelly Whitten
  Recorder:
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and Board of Directors Sandy U'Ren
  Patrons/Staff: 55
1. Call to Order
President Maddux called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
    2. Pledge of Allegiance
Julia Stiffler led the flag salute.
    3. Roll Call
Sandy U'Ren called the roll of the board members. She noted that Director Johnson had a pre-arranged absence. There was a quorum.
  Motion by Mary Snitily, Madam President, I move that we excuse Debbie Johnson from the meeting
Final Resolution: Motion Carries, 4-0.
Aye: Mary Snitily, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
    4. Agenda Approval (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
Director Maddux read the agenda categories out loud. There were no comments or questions from the board members.
  Motion by Mary Snitily, The Board of Directors approve the agenda as presented.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries, 4-0.
Aye: Mary Snitily, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux

  5. Communications
A. Student Voice
Four students from Tukes Valley Primary School talked about the things they liked about their school.
  Lilly from Tukes Valley Middle School provided highlights on current and upcoming school events.
  Hollie, an ASB representative from River HomeLink, provided highlights on current and upcoming school-wide events.
  B. Recognition of National Board Certified Teacher 
Executive Director of Human Resources Michelle Reinhardt announced that a teacher from the district has earned certification by the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards (NBPTS). Ms. Reinhardt introduced Marina Heinz who was certified December 2023 and is a teacher at Pleasant Valley Primary School. The board congratulated Ms. Heinz.
  C. Employee Recognition Awards 
Director of Human Resources Luke LeCount presented the following staff members with an Employee Recognition Award: 

Lisa Cox
Dawn Hunt
Danielle Armstrong
Allison Bloemke
Justin Swain

The board congratulated the employees.
  D. Committee Reports
Legislative Committee
Director Snitily reviewed the amendments to the existing Washington State School Directors' Association (WSSDA) positions. She noted that amended positions will first go to the Legislative committee, then boards will vote on whether or not to adopt proposals at the General Assembly in the fall. The board members were in support of the suggested amendments to the existing positions.       

Audit Committee Report
Director Tate provided highlights from the recent audit committee meeting.

Battle Ground Education Foundation (BGeF)
There was not a BGeF report.

Washington Interscholastic Activities Association (WIAA) Committee
There was not a WIAA report.

Washington State School Directors' Association (WSSDA) Updates
There was not a WSSDA report.

Tours Committee
The board members provided highlights from their specific group's tour. The schools toured were Daybreak Primary, Pleasant Valley Primary and Pleasant Valley Middle schools.
  E. Director Reports
The board members provided highlights from events they have attended.
    6. Superintendent and Staff Updates
A. Superintendent Report 
Denny Waters discussed the district's 2024-25 budget reduction plan. He stated the reductions were due to the loss of Elementary and Secondary School Emergency Relief (ESSER) funds, Title funding and inflationary factors.

The board members asked clarifying questions.
  B. Teaching and Learning Report 
Shelly Whitten introduced Kellie Clay, executive director of support services. Ms. Clay proceeded to present a slide desk on the post-school outcomes for the 2021-22 school year.

C. Human Resources Report 
Michelle Reinhardt reported the department is working on staffing for misplaced staff members.
  D. Finance Report 
There was not a finance report.
  E. Operations Report 
Executive Director of Facilities Kevin Jolma provided highlights on the facility projects that will occur over spring break.
  F. Communications Report 
Director of Communications and Community Outreach Amanda Richter presented a slide deck, which covered media articles, and district stories.
    7. Citizens' Comments
Director Maddux read out loud the protocol for citizens' comments.
  The following people addressed the board opposing the Freight Rail Dependent Use (FRDU):
  Coleen Runyon
Mark Leed
Wendy Cleveland
Dave Terry
Jeff Cox
Linda Micheel
Teresa Hardy

Memphis Sorensen addressed the board about the graduation coach positions being cut due to budget reductions.

Jennifer Heinee-Withee discussed her concerns with state-wide inappropriate library books. 

Eunice Ingermanson addressed the board about the budget reductions for the 2024-25 school year.
    8. Consent Agenda (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Approval of Consent Agenda
Director Maddux read the Consent Agenda items out loud. There were no questions or comments from the board members.
  B. Approval of Minutes - March 11, 2024 Regular Meeting
C. Approval of Minutes - March 11, 2024 Special Meeting
D. Personnel Reports - Certificated and Classified
E. Student Travel
F. Financial Reports - January 2024
G. Completed Projects Request for Approval
H. Approval of TL 24-180 Agreement with the Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction
I. Approval of STS 24-191 Agreement with Washington State Health Care Authority
  Motion by Ted Champine, The Board of Directors approve the Consent Agenda as presented.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries, 4-0.
Aye: Mary Snitily, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
    9. Old Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
There were no Old Business items.
    10. New Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Approval of Contract for the District Stadium Scoreboard Replacement 
Kevin Jolma presented the contract for the replacement of the district stadium scoreboard. The new scoreboard will be a video display model that is more advanced than the older standard electronic signs which simply show digital numbers. This scoreboard allows for video display during events and has a12 feet by 18 feet video screen.
  The board members asked clarifying questions.
  Motion by Terry Tate, The Board of Directors to approve the contract for the district stadium scoreboard replacement utilizing the KCDA Purchasing Cooperative.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries, 4-0.
Aye: Mary Snitily, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux

B. Revision of Policy 6215 Voucher Certification and Approval 
Chief Financial Officer Michelle Scott presented the revision of Policy 6215 Voucher Certification and Approval. She explained the revision was to clarify RCW 28A.330.090 statutory provision requirements of an audit committee. She noted that the district has an audit committee and meets the statutory requirement.

A board member asked a clarifying question.
  Motion by Mary Snitily, The Board of Directors approve the revision on Policy 6215 Voucher Certification and Approval.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries, 4-0.
Aye: Mary Snitily, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
    11. Future Agenda Items and Board Events
Mr. Waters stated that in regards to citizen's comments around the FRDU, that the Friends of Clark County is a website they can visit with good information regarding the FRDU. He suggested that a discussion pertaining to this issue be discussed at the next board meeting.
    12. Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 8:34 p.m.
APPROVED:  APRIL 8, 2024
          BOARD PRESIDENT
  BOARD SECRETARY
 