BATTLE GROUND PUBLIC SCHOOLS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
  Regular Meeting
September 9, 2024 
6:00 PM
  Lewisville Campus
406 NW Fifth Avenue
Battle Ground, WA 98604
  MINUTES
  Members and Administrators present:
Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux, Denny Waters and Shelly Whitten
  Student Representatives present:
Julia Stiffler, Itzel Contreras Montiel
  Recorder: 
Executive Administrative Assistant to the Superintendent, Lisa Randle
  Staff/Attendees: 34
  1. Call to Order
President Maddux called the meeting to order at 6:00 PM
  2. Pledge of Allegiance
Student Representative Julia Stiffler led the meeting in the Pledge of Allegiance.
  3. Roll Call
Lisa Randle called the roll of the Board. There was a quorum.
  4. Agenda Approval (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Agenda Approval
  Student Representatives: Julia Stiffler Pro, Itzel Contreras Montiel Pro.
  Motion by Mary Snitily, The Board of Directors approve the agenda as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
  5. Communications
A. Recognition - School Resource Officers - Mike Kesler
Mike Kesler, Security Supervisor, introduced the District's three School Resource Officers (SRO). Battle Ground Police Officers Phil Anderson and Glenn Pavelko, who work at Battle Ground High School and the other schools in the City of Battle Ground, and Clark County Sheriff's Office Deputy Chelsea Quiggle, who covers Prairie High School and the other schools in Clark County.
  B. Student Voice
Student Representative Julia Stiffler gave an update on the first few weeks at River HomeLink.
Student Representative Itzel Contreras Montiel gave an update on the first few weeks at Prairie High School.
  C. Committee Reports
Legislative Committee
Director Snitily reminded the board that she would be at the General Assembly on September 20th and 21st. She noted that only 83 districts out of the 295 in Washington had registered for the General Assembly as of September 9.
  Audit Committee Report
No report
  Battle Ground Education Foundation (BGeF)
No report
  Washington State School Directors' Association (WSSDA) Updates 
Director Snitily shared that District 2 has legislative and resolution committee openings; they are two-year commitments, and applications must be filed by September 16.
  Tours Committee
The year's first tour is on September 20 at Pleasant Valley Middle School.
  D. Director Reports
Director Johnson asked clarifying questions about the Convergint contract on the Consent Agenda.
President Maddux requested the rest of the board members get her two board topics they would like to see a presentation about during this year's board meetings by the end of the week. She then scheduled a Work Session on September 23, 2024, at 4:30 p.m. to discuss the 8 Characteristics of a Governing Board.
  6. Superintendent and Staff Updates
A. Superintendent Report - Denny Waters
Mr. Waters thanked our partners, First Student and Chartwell, for a smooth start to the beginning of the school year.
He reminded the board that the first CAC meeting will be on Thursday, September 12, at 5:30 p.m. in the Battle Ground High School Media Center.
Mr. Waters also advised the Board that he, President Maddux, Director Kevin Jolma, Deputy Superintendent Whitten, and Director Champine will meet with the City of Battle Ground on September 19th about potential new roads that could impact school campuses.  
  B. Teaching and Learning Report - Shelly Whitten
Mrs. Whitten updated the board on implementing this school year's new Science and Social Studies curriculum.
She also wanted to acknowledge the Kindergarten teams implementing the 45-day plan, which is designed to teach the behavior and expectations needed for students to be successful academically and support the Kindergarten teachers.
  C. Human Resources Report - Michelle Reinhardt
There was no Human Resources report given.
  D. Finance Report - Michelle Scott
Michelle Scott updated the board that the district's FTE was 61 over budget as of the first official count day, September 6.  The Transition to Kindergarten (TTK) program does a slow start and next month, their FTE will bump up.

E. Operations Report - Kevin Jolma
There was no Operations report given.
  F. Communications Report - Amanda Richter
There was no Communication report given.
  7. Citizens' Comments
  A. Citizens' Comments
  Aly Strappenzon - September Spanish Heritage month and Suicide Awareness month.
Kristin Wade with Clark County Developmental Disabilities Program - Developmental Disabilities Advisory Board, National Disabilities Employment Awareness Month Event.  October 9, 2024, 4:30 PM - 6 PM event at Clark College in Gaiser Hall, and the event is free.
Jeanni Ferdon - Policy 3230, Student Privacy and Searches.
Jesse McCarty - SEL - Casel.
Sergio Ochoa- SEL - Casel.
Delaney Oharer- SEL - Casel.
John Oharer- SEL - Casel.
Jeshiah Green- SEL - Casel.
Eunice Ingermanson - LBGTQ+ children.
Jessica Cole - Crossing Guards and Extracurricular Activities.
Wynn Greich - Toxic Shock, COVID Vaccine, Flouride.
Victoria Ferrer, Moment of silence for a young person who lost their life over the weekend.
  8. Consent Agenda (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Approval of Consent Agenda
B. Approval of Minutes - August 26, 2024
C. Personnel Reports
D. Student Travel
E. Financial Reports
F. Completed Projects Request for Approval
G. Approval of the Convergint Technologies Contract
  Motion by Ted Champine, The Board of Directors approve the Consent Agenda as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux

9. Old Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
No Old Business
  10. New Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Retire Policy 5521 - Teacher Assistance Program - Luke LeCount
The regulation directing the Teacher Assistance Program has been repealed, and other statutes/regulations have not incorporated provisions specific to the Teacher Assistance Program. Therefore, WSSDA is retiring this policy and procedure.
    Motion by Ted Champine, The Board approve the retirement of Policy and Procedure 5521 - Teacher Assistance Program.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux

11. Future Agenda Items and Board Events
 A. Future Agenda Items and Board Events
President Maddux went over upcoming events the Board will attend.
  12. Adjournment
A. Adjournment
President Maddux adjourned the meeting at 7:24 PM.
    APPROVAL OF MINUTES
        Board President
        Board Secretary
 