BATTLE GROUND PUBLIC SCHOOLS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
  Regular Meeting
January 8, 2024
6:00 P.M.
  Lewisville Campus
406 NW Fifth Avenue
Battle Ground, WA
  MINUTES
Members present:
Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
  Student representatives present:
Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
  Administrators present:
Superintendent Denny Waters, Deputy Superintendent Shelly Whitten
  Recorder:
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and Board of Directors Sandy U'Ren
  Patrons/Staff: 22
1. Call to Order
President Maddux called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
    2. Pledge of Allegiance
Julia Stiffler led the flag salute.
    3. Roll Call
Sandy U'Ren called the roll of the board members. There was a quorum.
    4. Agenda Approval (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
Director Maddux read the agenda categories out loud. There were no comments or questions from the board members.
  Motion by Ted Champine, The Board of Directors approve the agenda as presented.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries, 5-0.
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
    5. Communications
A. Student Voice
The Mitchell family, Victoria a 9th grader, Allison a 7th grader, Peter a 4th grader, and Emmit a kindergartener told about the things they like about attending River HomeLink. 

ASB Representative Elsa Bice from CAM Academy provided an update on past school events at the high school level.

Anastasia Royenko, ASB representative, from CAM Academy provided an update on middle school events. 
  B. Committee Reports
Legislative Committee
Director Snitily provided information about the legislative bills to watch. 

Audit Committee
Director Champine announced that the committee met and reviewed budget reports, the superintendent's timesheet, vouchers, and payroll. He noted everything was in order.

Battle Ground Education Foundation (BGeF)
Director Johnson reported the next BGeF meeting is scheduled for January 9, 2024.  

Washington Interscholastic Activities Association (WIAA) Committee
Director Champine reported the next WIAA meeting is scheduled for January 11, 2024.

Washington State School Directors' Association (WSSDA) Updates 
Director Maddux reviewed the training opportunities that WSSDA is offering for school board members.

Tours Committee
Director Maddux reviewed the tour schedule.
  C. Director Reports
Director Maddux commented that over the last few months there have been concerns from citizens around curriculum policies and library information. Superintendent Waters provided information on policies 2020 and 2021 to help clarify their concerns.

Director Tate stepped away from the meeting at 6:49 p.m. He returned at 6:51 p.m.
    6. Superintendent and Staff Updates
A. Superintendent Report 
Denny Waters turned his report over to Amanda Richter, director of communications and community outreach, who would be providing information about the capital levy. Ms. Richter presented a slide deck and video on capital levy facts.

A board member asked clarifying questions.

Mr. Waters reviewed a handout about the for and against statements in the voters' pamphlet for the district's capital levy Proposition 7.
  B. Teaching and Learning Report 
Shelly Whitten invited the Executive Director of Special Services Kellie Clay and Jen Goodwin, director of special services, forward to provide an overview on Special Services. The directors proceeded to present a slide deck on special services.

The board members asked clarifying questions.
  C. Human Resources Report 
Director of Human Resources Luke LeCount provided an update on items that will be shared with the board in the coming weeks.
  D. Finance Report 
There was not a finance report.
  E. Operations Report 
There was not an operations report.
  F. Communications Report 
There was not a communications report.
    7. Citizens' Comments
Conrad Verpoorten thanked the board for answering questions about the library.

Gretchen Verpoorten addressed the board about using an alternative book fair vendor versus Scholastic. 

Jennifer Heine-Withee was not in favor of the board supporting Item G. under the Consent Agenda. 

Victoria Ferrer was not in favor of the board approving the contract for the Jim Tangeman Center 
    8. Consent Agenda (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Approval of Consent Agenda
Director Maddux read the Consent Agenda items out loud. Superintendent Waters asked permission to address the patron's concern regarding the Jim Tangeman contract. A board member asked a clarifying question.
  B. Approval of Minutes - December 11, 2023 Regular Meeting
C. Approval of Minutes - December 11, 2023 Special Meeting
D. Business and Operations - Vouchers and Payroll for December 2023
E. Personnel Reports - Certificated and Classified
F. Completed Projects Request for Approval
G. Vancouver Public Schools Jim Tangeman Center Interdistrict Cooperative Agreement 2023-24 School Year
  Motion by Terry Tate, The Board of Directors approve the Consent Agenda as presented.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries, 5-0.
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
    9. Old Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
There were no Old Business items.
    10. New Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Approval of Resolution A-24 Clark Regional Natural Hazard Mitigation Plan 
Director of Risk Management and Business Operations, Cheri Dailey presented Resolution A-24 Clark Regional Natural Hazard Mitigation plan. In addition, Ms. Daily presented a slide deck on the Clark Regional Natural Mitigation plan.
  Motion by Mary Snitily, The Board of Directors approve Resolution A-24 Clark Regional Natural Hazard Mitigation Plan.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries, 5-0.
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
    11. Future Agenda Items and Board Events
Director Maddux reviewed the board's upcoming events.
    12. Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 8:07 p.m.
APPROVED:  JANUARY 22, 2024
            BOARD PRESIDENT
  BOARD SECRETARY
 