BATTLE GROUND PUBLIC SCHOOLS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
  Regular Meeting
June 24, 2024 
6:00 PM
  Lewisville Campus
406 NW Fifth Avenue
Battle Ground, WA 98604
  MINUTES
  Members and Administrators present:
Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Denny Waters and Shelly Whitten
  Members excused:
Director Maddux had a pre-arranged absence
  Student Representatives present:
Julia Stiffler had an excused absence
  Recorder: 
Executive Administrative Assistant to the Superintendent, Lisa Randle
  Staff/Attendees: 26
  1. Call to Order
Vice President Snitily called this meeting to order at 6:00 PM
  2. Pledge of Allegiance
Director Johnson led the crowd in the pledge of allegiance.
  3. Roll Call
Lisa Randle called the board members roll.  She noted that President Maddux and Student Representative Stiffler had pre-arranged absences.
There was a quorum.
    Motion by Ted Champine, I move that we excuse Jackie Maddux from the meeting.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate
  Motion by Terry Tate, I move that we excuse Julia Stiffler from the meeting.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries: 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate

    4. Agenda Approval (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Agenda Approval
  Motion by Debbie Johnson, The Board of Directors approve the agenda as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate

  5. Communications
A. Recognition
Michelle Reinhardt, Executive Director of Human Resources, presented promotional changes in the administrative world for the 2024-2025 school year.
  Heather Ichimura will be the Principal at Battle Ground High School
Ben Ziegler will be the Principal at Tukes Valley Middle School
Mari Schauer will be the assistant principal at Pleasant Valley Primary
Trevor Person will be the Athletic Director/Assistant Principal at Battle Ground High School
  B. Committee Reports
Presenter:
Board Members
  Background:
Legislative Committee
No Report
  Audit Committee Report
No Report
  Battle Ground Education Foundation
Terry Tate commented there was a meeting, but he was unable to attend.
  Washington Interscholastic Activities Association Committee
No meeting until August.
  Washington State School Directors' Association Updates 
No Report
  C. Director Reports
No Report
  6. Superintendent and Staff Updates
A. Superintendent Report - Denny Waters
  Washington State School Board sent out the recognitions for the 2021-2022 school year and the 2022-2023 school year.
  2021-2022 Schools Recognized
  Daybreak Primary for growth for one or more student groups
Laurin Middle for growth for one or more student groups
Pleasant Valley Middle for growth for one or more student groups
Tukes Valley Primary for closing gaps for one or more student groups
  2022-2023 Schools Recognized
  CAM Academy growth for one or more student groups and achievement for the entire school
Captain Strong Primary for growth for one or more student groups
Daybreak Primary for closing gaps for English language learners
Tukes Valley Primary for growth for one or more student groups

Superintendent Waters went over the Policy 2021 Procedure to show the changes that were made on February 5, 2024 
Adding a hyperlink to the form, make an appointment with the teacher librarian.
  B. Teaching and Learning Report - Shelly Whitten
No report
  C. Human Resources Report - Michelle Reinhardt
Contract Negotiations with extra curriculum staff - highlights of the contract

Wished Dave Cresap the best of luck on his retirement
  D. Finance Report - Michelle Scott
Michelle Scott explained that the 2024-2025 lunch and breakfast prices are item J on the consent agenda. Lunch prices will only increase the minimum of $.10 and there will be no change to breakfast prices.

Michelle asked the board to have a work session on August 12, 2024 to provide budget information and then the board would vote to approve the 2024-2025 budget at the August 26th Regular Board Meeting.
  E. Operations Report - Kevin Jolma
Executive Director of Operations Kevin Jolma gave an update on the list of summer projects.
  ESCO is working on the clean building act auditing
Central Office Building will be going out to bid on July 15
Captain Strong Primary conversion of a small workroom to a staff restroom
CASEE basement offices are wrapping up and will be starting carpet replacement in building C.
Laurin will be adding parking lot ballers and chains to protect the grass people have been driving through.
PHS many projects, replacing the gym floor, BVGA designing for the 2025-2026 school year, updating the bandroom
Pleasant Valley adding three new classrooms
Adding a card swipe at Yacolt Primary
  F. Communications Report - Amanda Richter
  7. Citizens' Comments
A. Citizens' Comments
The following citizens voice concerns about the district's Library Policy.
  Jennifer Heine Withee 
Joey Durants
Jesse McCarty
Jerimiah G
Tyler Long 
Dory Miller 
Brenden Miller
Victory Ferrer
  Jessica Cole and Eunice Ingermenson - LBGTQ+ safety

Wynn Gersich - Fluoride

8. Consent Agenda (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Approval of Consent Agenda
B. Approval of Minutes - June 10, 2024, Regular Board Meeting
C. Approval of Minutes - June 20, 2024 - Special Meeting
D. Business and Operations
E. Personnel Reports
F. Student Travel
G. Completed Projects Request for Approval
H. Revised Agreement Between BGSD and BGEA Extra-Curricular Employees September 1, 2024 through August 31, 2027
I. ESD Contracts for 2024-2025
J. Lunch and Breakfast for 2024-2025
  Motion by Ted Champine, The Board of Directors approve the Consent Agenda as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate
  9. Old Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
No old business items
  10. New Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. First Reading of Curriculum Proposal for High School Child Development (CTE)
  Motion by Debbie Johnson, The Board of Directors accept the first reading of the recommended High School Child Development curriculum: "Working with Young Children" by Judy Herr. Publisher: Goodheart-Wilcox. Copyright 2024.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate

B. Revision of Policy 3241 Student Discipline - Tom Adams
  Motion by Terry Tate, The Board approve the revisions to Policy 3241 Student Discipline.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate

C. Revision of Policy 3143 District Notification of Juvenile Offenders - Tom Adams
  Motion by Terry Tate, The Board of Directors approve the revision and renaming of Policy 3143, Notification and Dissemination of Information about Student Offenses and Notification of Threats of Violence or Harm (Formerly District Notification of Juvenile Offenders)
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate

D. Revision of Policy 3120 Enrollment - Tom Adams
  Motion by Debbie Johnson, The Board of Directors approve the revision of Policy 3120, Enrollment
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate

E. Revision of Policy 6022 Fund Balance - Michelle Scott
  Motion by Ted Champine, The Board of Directors approve the revision of Policy 6022 Fund Balance.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate

F. Revision of Policy 6700 Nutrition - Michelle Scott
  Motion by Terry Tate, The Board of Directors accept the changes to policy 6700, Nutrition.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate

G. Adoption of Policy 6701 Recess and Physical Activity - Shelly Whitten
  Motion by Terry Tate, The Board of Directors adopts Policy 6701, Recess and Physical Activity.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate

H. Adoption of Policy 6702 Wellness - Michelle Scott
  Motion by Terry Tate, The Board of Directors adopts Policy 6702, Wellness.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate

11. Future Agenda Items and Board Events
A. Future Agenda Items and Board Events
  12. Executive Session
A. Evaluation of Superintendent - RCW 42.30.110 (1)(g) - Possible Action
    Motion by Ted Champine, The Board of Directors approve the evaluation for Superintendent Denny Waters
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate
  Motion by Debbie Johnson, The Board of Directors approve the 2024-2027 Contract with Superintendent Denny Waters
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate
  13. Adjournment
A. Adjournment
8:06pm
    APPROVED: July 22, 2024
        Board President
        Board Secretary
   