Docusign Envelope ID: 252090AE-F8BC-4EEF-9C83-28847EB5C336
8/27/24, 9:14 AM

BoardDocs® Pro

BATTLE GROUND PUBLIC SCHOOLS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Regular Meeting
May 28, 2024
6:00 P.M.
Lewisville Campus
406 NW Fifth Avenue
Battle Ground, WA

MINUTES

Members present:
Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
Student Representatives present:
Julia Stiffler
Administrators present:
Superintendent Denny Waters, Deputy Superintendent Shelly Whitten
Recorder:
Administrative Assistant to the Deputy Superintendent Lisa Randle
Patron/Staff: 142
1. Call to Order
President Maddux called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
2. Pledge of Allegiance
Student Representative Stiffler led the crowd in the pledge of allegiance.
3. Roll Call
Lisa Randle called the board members' roll. She noted that Student Representative Sora Tolley had a pre-arranged absence.
There was a quorum.
Motion by Mary Snitily, I move that we excuse Student Representative Tolley
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
4. Agenda Approval (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
Director Maddux read the agenda categories out loud. There were no comments or questions from the
board members.
Motion by Debbie Johnson, The Board of Directors approve the agenda as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
5. Communications
A. Student Voice
Paulina MacDonald and Sarah Aron from GHP shared what their student leadership group has done throughout the school
year.
Sonia Pivovari, Valeriia Zadorozhnia, and Veronika Lazarecva from Laurin Middle School shared what they enjoy about
their school and the Multilingual program.
Holly Ihasz, ASB vice president at River HomeLink shared a list of school events,
B. District Art Show
Allison Tuchard presented awards to students who entered their work into the 65th Annual District Art Show.
C. Athletics Signings Recognition
Tom Adams highlighted student-athletes who signed commitment letters to play their respective sports at the college
level.
D. Committee Reports
Legislative Committee
There was no report given.
Audit Committee Report
There was no report given.

https://go.boarddocs.com/wa/bgps/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#

1/3

Docusign Envelope ID: 252090AE-F8BC-4EEF-9C83-28847EB5C336
8/27/24, 9:14 AM

BoardDocs® Pro

Battle Ground Education Foundation (BGeF)
Director Johnson and Maddux updated the board on important dates to support the BGeF.
August 17 Stuff the Bus: there will be buses at 2 locations. BG Fred Meyer and WalMart.
October 5 Silent Auction
Washington Interscholastic Activities Association (WIAA) Committee
There was no report given.
Washington State School Directors' Association (WSSDA) Updates
There was no report given.
Tours Committee
The board members provided highlights from their specific group's tour. The schools toured were Captain Strong and
Chief Middle School
E. Director Reports
The board members provided highlights from events they have attended.
6. Superintendent and Staff Update
A. Superintendent Report - Denny Waters
Superintendent Waters reported he attended the Cascadia Tech Outstanding Students recognition on June 21. Battle
Ground School District had six students recognized.
Mr. Waters reminded everyone of the dates and times of the upcoming graduations.
B. Teaching and Learning Report - Shelly Whitten
Deputy Superintendent Whitten announced that OSPI approved the Waiver for two professional development days in the
2024-2025 school year.
C. Human Resources Report - Michelle Reinhardt
Executive Director Michelle Reinhardt updated the board on the coaches and Multi Languages staff contracts that are in
the process of being ratified.
D. Finance Report - Michelle Scott
There was no financial report.
E. Operations Report - Kevin Jolma
There was no operations report.
F. Communications Report - Amanda Richter
There was no communications report.
7. Citizens' Comments
The following citizens shared with the board.
Jennifer Heine-Withee - Library Policy
Eunice Ingermenson - Arts
Jessica Cole - LBGQ+
Buffy Spartar - Library Policy
8. Consent Agenda (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Approval of Consent Agenda
B. Approval of Minutes - May 13, 2024 - Special Meeting
C. Approval of Minutes - May 13, 2024 - Regular Meeting
D. Personnel Reports
E. Student Travel
F. Financial Reports
G. Adoption of High School Science Curriculum
H. Highly Capable District Plan
I. Washington D.C. Private Trip - Paula Wingerter
Motion by Terry Tate, The Board of Directors approve the Consent Agenda as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
9. Old Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
No old business
10. New Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Contract Approval with Construction Services Group, Inc. - Kevin Jolma
This contract will provide three new classrooms at Pleasant Valley Primary.
https://go.boarddocs.com/wa/bgps/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#

2/3

Docusign Envelope ID: 252090AE-F8BC-4EEF-9C83-28847EB5C336
8/27/24, 9:14 AM

BoardDocs® Pro

Motion by Mary Snitily, The board approve the contract with Construction Services Group Inc.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
B. Agreement Approval for the Energy Audit of Facilities - Kevin Jolma
During the next six months, Ameresco will identify a path toward compliance per building and create an Energy
Management Plan for our buildings that will guide the implementation of energy savings measures over the next several
years.
Motion by Ted Champine, The Board of Directors approve Energy Services Authorization No. 2024-909
A (1) and the Funding Approval letter.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 5-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Terry Tate, Jackie Maddux
11. Future Agenda Items and Board Events
Upcoming Events:
Pass in Review
June 10, 2024 Board Meeting begins at 4 p.m.
Graduations
12. Executive Session
Director Maddux announced the board would enter an executive session per RCW 42.30.110 (1)(d), with no action for 20
minutes.
At 7:23 p.m., the Board entered executive session, which ended at 7:43 p.m. with no action.
13. Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at 7:43 p.m.

APPROVED: JUNE 10, 2024

Board President

Board Secretary

https://go.boarddocs.com/wa/bgps/Board.nsf/Private?open&login#

3/3

