Docusign Envelope ID: 252090AE-F8BC-4EEF-9C83-28847EB5C336
8/27/24, 9:10 AM

BoardDocs速 Pro

BATTLE GROUND PUBLIC SCHOOLS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Regular Meeting
April 22, 2024
6:00 P.M.
Lewisville Campus
406 NW Fifth Ave
Battle Ground, WA 98604

MINUTES
Members present
Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Jackie Maddux
Members excused:
Terry Tate
Student Representatives present:
Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Administrators present:
Superintendent Denny Waters, Deputy Superintendent Shelly Whitten
Recorder:
Executive Assistant to the Superintendent and Board of Directors Lisa Randle
Patron/Staff: 51
1. Call to Order
President Maddux called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
2. Pledge of Allegiance
Student Representative Stiffler lead the crowd in the pledge of allegiance.
3. Roll Call
Lisa Randle called the roll of the board member. She noted that Director Tate had a pre-arranged absence. There was a quorum.I
Madam President, I move that we excuse Terry Tate from the meeting.
Motion by Mary Snitily, Madame President, I move that we excuse Director Tate
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Jackie Maddux
4. Agenda Approval (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
Director Maddux read the agenda categories out loud. There were no comments or questions from the
board members.
Motion by Ted Champine, The Board of Directors approve the agenda as presented.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Jackie Maddux
5. Communications
A. Student Voice
Six students from Pleasant Valley Primary took turns sharing about the things they like about their school.
Jazmyn Quach Sides and Heba Elolaimi from Pleasant Valley Middle answered questions from the board about what they like
about their school.
Holly I. the ASB vice president from RHL updated the board on the school's past and upcoming events.
https://go.boarddocs.com/wa/bgps/Board.nsf/Private?open&login

1/4

Docusign Envelope ID: 252090AE-F8BC-4EEF-9C83-28847EB5C336
8/27/24, 9:10 AM

BoardDocs速 Pro

Madison Chandler, a 10th grader at BGHS shared her concern with the board that her ASL teacher did not receive an interpreter
for an emergency staff meeting that morning and she did not feel that this was equitable and inclusive.
B. Recognition - The Reflector's Person of the Year
Lynnell Murray, Director of Federal Programs, and Travis Blakenship, FCRC Specialist recognized Bev Jones, The Reflector's
Person of the Year for her work in the Clothes Closet.
C. Recognition
Eighteenth District Representatives Stephanie McClintock and Greg Cheney presented Colleen O'Neal, President of Battle
Ground Education Foundation, and Faith Terrant, a Prairie High School State Wrestler with Washington State House
Resolutions to honor their accomplishments in the Battle Ground Community.
D. Employee Recognition Awards
Director of Human Resources Luke LeCount presented the following staff members with an Employee Recognition Award:
The Employee Recognitions Awards highlight staff members who reflect the district's strategic plan goals. These individuals
from all roles represent their school/department and themselves positively. April's recipients are:
Lindsay Ross - Nurse - Captain Strong, Chief Umtuch, CAM Academy
Amy Pace - Teacher - Pleasant Valley Middle School
Melissa Kennedy - Teacher - Pleasant Valley Primary School
Amy Gustin - Support Staff - Print Shop
The board congratulated the employees.
E. Committee Report
Legislative Committee
Director Snitily reported that the amended positions went to the Legislative Committee and she will let the board know if
they pass or do not pass after the vote in the fall.
Audit Committee Report
Director Champine provided details of the audit committee meeting he amended.
Battle Ground Education Foundation (BGeF)
Director Johnson reported that the BGeF is celebrating its 30th year of supporting the Battle Ground Community and
other highlights from the recent meeting she attended.
Washington Interscholastic Activities Association (WIAA) Committee
Director Champine provided highlights from the WIAA meeting that he attended.
Washington State School Directors' Association (WSSDA) Updates
Director Snitily mentioned that she would like to see our district present on Coherence and the Audit Committee at the
conference this year.
Tours Committee
The board members provided highlights from their specific group's tour. The schools toured were Yacolt Primary and the
CAM/Lewisville/Warehouse campus'.
F. Director Reports
The board members provided highlights from events they have attended.
6. Superintendent and Staff Updates
A. Superintendent Report - Denny Waters
Superintendent Waters updated the Board on
The final CAC meeting of the 2023-2024 school year
The Hawk crosswalk the State has submitted to put across Hwy 503 by Prairie High School
OSPI approved the weather-related waiver day for the end of the 2023-2024 school year.
B. Teaching and Learning Report - Shelly Whitten
David K presented on PLC waiver days for the 2024-2025 school year.
C. Human Resources Report - Michelle Reinhardt
There was no Human Resource update.
D. Finance Report - Michelle Scott
https://go.boarddocs.com/wa/bgps/Board.nsf/Private?open&login

2/4

Docusign Envelope ID: 252090AE-F8BC-4EEF-9C83-28847EB5C336
8/27/24, 9:10 AM

BoardDocs速 Pro

There was no Finance update.
E. Operations Report - Kevin Jolma
There was no Operations update
F. Communications Report - Amanda Richter
Director of Communications and Community Outreach Amanda Richter highlighted Unified Sports at Prairie High School,
the welding programs at Prairie and Battle Ground High Schools, and two of our counselors, Deb Wood and Chris Linquist.

7. Citizens' Comments
Eunice Ingermenson spoke about the Healthy Youth survey.
Jessica Cole spoke about Prevent BG Alliance
Jennifer Heine-Withee spoke about grooming
8. Consent Agenda (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Approval of Consent Agenda
President Maddux read the Consent Agenda items out loud. There were no comments or questions from the
board members.
B. Approval of Minutes - April 8, 2024 Regular Board Meeting
C. Business and Operations
D. Personnel Reports
E. Student Travel
F. Financial Reports
G. Completed Projects Request for Approval
H. Request for Approval - Asset Preservation Program (APP) 2023-2024
I. Second Reading and Adoption of Curriculum Proposed for Middle School Science
J. Second Reading and Adoption of High School Social Studies Curriculum
Motion by Mary Snitily, The Board of Directors approve the Consent Agenda as presented.
Student Advisory Vote: Pro: Sora Tolley, Julia Stiffler
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Jackie Maddux
9. Old Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
There was no old business.
10. New Business (Board Vote w/Student Voice)
A. Revision of Policy 5011 - Sexual Harassment of District Staff Prohibited
Executive Director of Human Resources Michelle Reinhart presented the revision to Policy 5011.
Motion by Ted Champine, The Board approve the revision of Policy 5011 - Sexual Harassment of District Staff
Prohibited
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Jackie Maddux
B. Approval of Resolution B-24 Chelatchie Property Surplus - Kevin Jolma
Executive Director of Facilities and Operation, Kevin Jolma, asked the Board of Directors to approve the surplus of land the
district has owned since 1942 when the Mt. Tum Tum School District dissolved and became part of the Battle Ground Public
Schools.
Motion by Ted Champine, The Board approve Resolution B-24 Chelatchie Property Surplus
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Jackie Maddux
C. Approval of the contract for District-Wide HVAC Filter Service - Kevin Jolma
The contract will hire out changing filters in all district properties.
Motion by Mary Snitily, The Board of Directors to approve the District-Wide HVAC Filter Service with Camfil
USA, Inc.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Jackie Maddux
D. Approval to bid the Pleasant Valley Primary 3 Classroom Addition Project - Kevin Jolma
Executive Director of Facilities and Operation, Kevin Jolma, will put this project out for bid.

https://go.boarddocs.com/wa/bgps/Board.nsf/Private?open&login

3/4

Docusign Envelope ID: 252090AE-F8BC-4EEF-9C83-28847EB5C336
8/27/24, 9:10 AM

BoardDocs速 Pro

Motion by Ted Champine, The Board of Directors approve the bidding of the Pleasant Valley Primary 3
Classroom Addition Project.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Jackie Maddux
E. Approval of easements for the City of Battle Ground at the CAM Academy campus - Kevin Jolma
The City of Battle Ground will have access to the new stormwater covenant between CAM and the baseball fields.
Motion by Debbie Johnson, The Board of Directors approve water and stormwater covenant easements for CAM
Academy campus as described in Exhibits A and B, and authorizes the Superintendent or a designee to sign the
agreements on behalf of the District
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Jackie Maddux
F. Approval of Boundary Line Adjustment for the City of Battle Ground at the CAM Academy campus - Kevin Jolma
This adjustment will allow the CAM campus to sit on one parcel.
Motion by Debbie Johnson, The Board of Directors approve a Boundary Line Adjustment for district-owned
parcels as described in Exhibit A, B, C & D and authorizes the Superintendent or a designee to sign the
agreement on behalf of the District
Final Resolution: Motion Carries 4-0
Aye: Mary Snitily, Debbie Johnson, Ted Champine, Jackie Maddux
11. Future Agenda Items and Board Events
A. Future Agenda Items and Board Events
The Board Members were reminded of the April 23, 2024, Board Tour at Tukes Valley Middle School, the Prairie High School
auction on April 27, the Battle Ground Education Foundations Open House on April 30, and the May 3 Board Tour at Summit
View High School and CASEE.
12. Adjournment
President Maddux adjourned the meeting at 8:16 PM

APPROVED, MAY 13, 2024

BOARD PRESIDENT

BOARD SECRETARY

https://go.boarddocs.com/wa/bgps/Board.nsf/Private?open&login

4/4

