The regular meeting of the Board of Education, White Salmon Valley School District, Klickitat and Skamania Counties, White
Salmon, WA was called to order at 7:01 p.m. Thursday, February 22, 2024, at the WSVSD Board Room, Park Center Building,
located at 170 NW Washington St., White Salmon, WA 98672, and via a ZOOM public meeting. Present: Board Chair Laurie
Stanton, Vice-chair Peter Harkema, Kris Ostness, Matthew Byrne, Pat Dempsey, Student Representatives, Superintendent Rich
Polkinghorn, and guests.
Board Chair Laurie Stanton led the Board in the flag salute.
Additions/Deletions to Agenda: None.
Kris Ostness moved to adopt the agenda. Seconded by Peter Harkema. Carried.
Reports:
a) Superintendent Update: Superintendent Rich Polkinghorn shared an update with the Board. Superintendent
Polkinghorn’s update included a synopsis of student, staff, and community strategic planning input meetings and the big
ideas that came from those. Superintendent Polkinghorn announced to the Board that an electronic family and staff
newsletter will begin next week. The newsletter will include information regarding the process for community members
to sign up to receive communication from the district. An update was given with the total snow days so far this year, and
plans for make-up and waiver days. Superintendent Polkinghorn shared key discussion items from the first Finance
Advisory Committee meeting. The associations, administration, and Board are all currently represented on the
committee. To conclude his report, Superintendent Polkinghorn shared recent news from the legislature. He stated that it
is imperative that K-12 education is the top priority with surplus funds. WASA and Washington Superintendents are
currently submitting letters to the legislature to prioritize K-12 funding.
b) Members of the Board: Peter Harkema shared that the Strategic Planning Committee would be holding their next
meeting tomorrow.
c) Student Representatives Report: The Student Representative shared an update on winter sports and the upcoming
spring sport season. Updates were also given on Mock Trials, Kowledge Bowl, FBLA, and the National Honor Society.
Recognition and Good News:
a) Columbia High School: Columbia High School Principal Craig McKee introduced FBLA advisor and CHS Business
teacher, Colin Cieloha. Colin shared about the growth of the program and the recent successes with 39 FBLA students
headed to the state competition. The Vice-President of the CHS FBLA chapter shared the growth he has seen in the club
since joining his freshman year. The club has grown from 12 members to the biggest club attending regionals. The VicePresident also shared regarding some of the events at the regional competition as well as the many successes CHS
students experienced in the competition. It was also shared that the club is currently fundraising for state, to make it
available to all students who qualified. The Board congratulated the club on its success and thanked them for the
presentation.
Audience Comments: None.
Reports and Discussion:
a) First Reading of Board Policies:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

3207- Prohibition of Harassment, Intimidation, and Bullying of Students (updated)
2024- Online Learning (new)
3241- Student Discipline (updated)
3243- Student Driving (updated)
3244- Prohibition of Corporal Punishment (updated)
3421- Child Abuse and Neglect (updated)
3422- Student Sports- Concussion, Heady Injury and Sudden Cardiac Arrest (updated)
3530- Fundraising Activities Involving Students (updated

b) Sold a Story Podcast: Megan Sheffels and Sharon West introduced themselves and the background and purpose of the
Podcast study group. The presentation included who was involved in the study, the three main goals and objectives of the
study, study focus, summary, study format, participation feedback, and reviewed the objective post completion of the
study. The presentation also included the next steps, sharing what they will be doing for staff development in partnership

with ESD 112 moving forward. Megan and Sharon held conversation with the Board and answered questions.
c)

CTE Program Updates and Four-Year Plan: Emily Gehrig, Columbia High School CTE Director, shared a report
outlining the current CTE programs offered at Columbia High School. Programs include Agriculture; plant and animal
science, Business, Woods and Metals, and Art. Each program area also offers extracurricular clubs. Emily shared some
of the community service projects students are participating in, including the construction of warming huts with
WAGAP, and running a dog food and supply drive for a local animal shelter. Emily shared some potential future CTE
courses that she is hoping to offer including; Electronics: circuits, conductivity, and electrical current- dual credit
through CGCC, Construction Technology: residential based construction, Woodshop I- Stringed Instrument, and
Worksite Learning: providing student real world work experience based on the grad pathway. Prior to completing the
presentation Emily reviewed the four-year plan that will be up for approval later in the evening. Emily held conversation
and answered questions for the Board.

d) Budget Projections: Superintendent Polkinghorn reviewed the enrollment report and trends in addition to the February
2023 enrollment report. The presentation also provided a General Fund review, including revenues, expenditures, and
fund balance both historical and current. Lastly, an overview of the projections and reports from the Finance Advisory
Committee Meeting was reviewed. Superintendent Polkinghorn held conversation and answered questions for the Board.
Consent Agenda: Peter Harkema moved to accept the Consent Agenda; January 25, 2024 Regular Board Meeting Minutes,
Affidavit of Payroll and Expenditures for the month of February 2024, and personnel actions. Seconded by Matthew Byrne.
Carried.
Action Items:
a) Second Reading of Board Policies: Matthew Byrne motioned to approve the policies. Seconded by Kris Ostness.
Carried.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

6020-System of Funds and Accounts (updated)
6215-Expense Claim Certification and Approval (updated)
6217-Electronic Funds Transfer (new)
6220-Bid or Request for Proposal Requirements (updated)
6513-Workplace Violence Prevention (updated)
6530-Insurance (updated)
6605-Student Safety Walking, Biking, and Riding Buses (updated)
6959-Acceptance of Completed Project (updated)
5005-Employment and Volunteers: Disclosures, Certification Requirements, Assurances and Approval
(updated)
5271-Reporting Improper Governmental Action (Whistleblower Protection) (updated)
3223-Freedom of Assembly (updated)
3224-Student Dress (updated)
3226-Interviews and Interrogations of Students on School Premises (updated)
3230-Searches of Students and Student Privacy (updated)
3232-Parent and Student Rights in Administration of Surveys, Analysis or Evaluations (updated)

b) Discontinued Board Policies: Matthew Byrne motioned to retire policy 3240. Seconded by Kris Ostness. Carried.
c) Approval of CTE Four-Year Plan: Peter Harkema motioned to approve the CTE 4-Year plan for the White Salmon
Valley School District. Seconded by Kris Ostness. Carried.
d) Approval of 2023-2024 Out of Endorsement Waiver: Kris Ostness motioned to approve the 2023-2024 Out of
Endorsement Waiver. Seconded by Matthew Byrne.
e) Resolution No. 23/24-05 WSVSD 405 Parking Area Reconstruction- Final Acceptance: Matthew Byrne motioned to
approve Resolution No. 23/24-05 final acceptance of the WSVSD 405 Parking Area Reconstruction. Seconded by Kris
Ostness. Carried.
f) Approval of Donations: Peter Harkema motioned to approve the donations. Seconded by Kris Ostness. Carried.
At 8:43 p.m. Board Chair Laurie Stanton adjourned the meeting with a motion by Matthew Byrne. Seconded by Peter Harkema.
Carried.

The next regular board meeting will be at 7:00 p.m., Thursday, March 28, 2024, held at the WSVSD Board Room, Park Center
Building, located at 170 NW Washington St., White Salmon, WA 98672. The meeting will also be hosted remotely via ZOOM.
ATTEST:
____________________________________
Chairman

_____________________________________
Secretary

