Port Townsend School District No. 50 / Chimacum School District No. 49
Board of Directors
1610 Blaine Street, Port Townsend, WA 98368

Special Joint Board Meeting
May 2, 2024
Page 1 of 4

Port Townsend School Board Chair Jennifer James-Wilson called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm.
Roll Call: Directors John Nowak, Simon Little, Nathanael O’Hara and Matt Klontz, present. Also, present Student
Representatives Maggie Emery and Zen Cook, and Superintendent Dr. Linda Rosenbury; staff and community members.
Chimacum Board Director Dr. Roxanne Hudson then called the meeting to order.
Roll Call: Kathryn Lamka, Tami Robocker, Mike Aman, Dr. Roxanne Hudson and Superintendent Dr. Scott Mauk.
Board Chair Kristina Mayer, Student Representatives Reid Martin and Isaac Johnson were excused. Also present were
staff and community members.
Pledge of Allegiance and Land Acknowledgement
Dir. Hudson led the Pledge of Allegiance.
Dir. James-Wilson read the Land Acknowledgement: “We are guests on the traditional land of the first people of Port
Townsend, the S'Klallam and Chemakum People. We acknowledge the past and present and honor with gratitude the
land itself and the S'Klallam Tribe who have lived and stewarded these lands since time immemorial and continue to do
so today.”
Introduction
Brief introductions were given by everyone at the table; Dir. O’Hara made a special point of noting the importance of
collaborating and meeting jointly.
Agenda
Chimacum Dir. Aman made a motion to approve the agenda as presented; Port Townsend Dir. Nowak seconded the
motion. The agenda was approved unanimously.
Reports
Annual Transportation Report
Monica Mulligan, Director of Transportation gave the 2023-24 combined report for the Port Townsend and Chimacum
School Districts. Ms. Mulligan shared a snapshot of one week’s worth of transportation trips above and beyond regular
morning, mid-day and afternoon trips transporting students. Trips for the two districts, involving many age groups,
included several in and out of county athletic events, field trips, the Job Fair, and the Sequim Irrigation Festival parade. It
was reported that the department has been operating with fewer drivers than it needs. Dir. Klontz asked about the
requirements for driving and issues with recruiting new drivers; recruitment is ongoing and training for the required CDL
is included. Regarding the length of time students are on the longest routes, Dir. James-Wilson asked if the
Gardiner/Discovery Bay route could be an express route. Ms. Mulligan explained that other students are picked up and
dropped off along the way – the longest ride is 50 minutes. She also admitted having to fill in as more than an occasional
substitute driver.
For the 2022-23 School Year, Chimacum transported an average of 530 riders in the big buses, and 24 riders in the little
buses, or an average of 44 riders in six big buses two times per day. The highest ridership was in June 2023 with 559; the
lowest was in December 2022 with 503. One van carries two students to the Madrona Program in Bremerton Kitsap Co.
logging 160 miles each day.
In Port Townsend during the same period, an average of 389 riders were served daily by the big buses and 29 riders on
little buses. Two Port Townsend students were also transported to Madrona by van each day, for 160 miles total.
Both Chimacum and Port Townsend students ride to West Sound Technical Skills Center in Bremerton, 90 miles each
day.
Ms. Mulligan recommended changing the bell schedule at Port Townsend schools for the 2025-26 school year. By
reversing the afternoon pick-up order, starting with high school, then middle school, and finally the Salish Coast
students. By loading in this order, students are organized differently and more naturally riders (back, middle, front for
elementary) and are unloaded more efficiently within the 1-mile walking distance as stops are being made at each school.
She suggested that an added benefit is that younger students would be on the bus for shorter periods of time, could walk
with

Port Townsend School District No. 50 / Chimacum School District No. 49
Board of Directors
1610 Blaine Street, Port Townsend, WA 98368

Special Joint Board Meeting
May 2, 2024
Page 2 of 4

older siblings, and that discipline issues are expected to be fewer. If the recommendation is adopted this would be a
change in start and end times at all of Port Townsend schools. Superintendent Rosenbury said that time was needed for
students, staff and families to look at the proposed changes and its impacts before the board would be ready to make this
decision.
Other subjects raised included sitting at bus stops and how that is determined; this was especially complex given the
speed limits on the roads, visibility, and safe shoulder widths. Discipline reports were not included, but Ms. Mulligan
said that they typically see issues go up in the spring, especially among the middle school age riders. She also reviewed
the Safe Routes to School program and OSPI’s determination of the 1-mile walk zone. This was more pertinent for Port
Townsend students: currently, 93 students at the high school live within this zone; 35 students at BHMS, and 181
students at Salish Coast, not all of whom have been determined as having safe routes to walk.
Annual Athletic Report
Athletic Director Shelby Box delivered the Title IX/Athletic Program report on the 2023-24 school year to date and
confirmed that the Rivals will remain in the 1A classification as part of the Nisqually League for the next four years. She
also described the program’s commitment to being a purpose-based athletic program which “leads and helps coaches
produce better humans by modeling kindness and reliability.” Questions were asked about the retention of athletes year
over year, and what “purpose-based athletics” looks like, specifically around producing better humans? AD Box
responded by describing the importance of the hiring process and the support that is needed for coaches as teachers and
role models. Success isn’t based on the scoreboard, she said. Showing up for your teammates and learning how to work
together, creating a culture… “Winning is definitely the goal, we will practice, prepare, and play to win, but it is not our
purpose. Our purpose as an athletic program is to produce better humans who show up for each other.”
Goals included increasing participation in athletics. This year, Chimacum had a total of 93 athletes participating in
sports, those athletes were counted 147 times as participants in 20 different sports (63 girls and 84 boys); 52% of the 93
athletes were multi-sport athletes, 63% were male; 42 out of 93 athletes (45%) qualified for free, and reduced lunch. The
number of students participating in athletics increased from 73 athletes last year to 93 this year!
Port Townsend had a total of 184 athletes representing 297 participants in 21 sports (137 girls, 160 boys), 50% of whom
are multi-sport athletes; 55% are male, and 26% qualify for free and reduced lunch. The total number of student athletes
increased from 178 last year to 184 this year!
Rivals Highlights and Celebrations
Fall: Girls’ XC– 2nd and 3rd place finishes at State; Boys’ Tennis–Reid Martin was WCD3 Champion; Swim–6
swimmers qualified for the State Tournament.
Winter: Girls’ basketball hosted a district playoff game and was one win away from going to the State Tournament;
Girls’ Wrestling–MiAmada Lanphear Ramirez placed 3rd at State; Boys’ Wrestling–Manaseh Lanphear Ramirez
qualified for State competition.
Spring: TBD–Track & Field athletes are likely to qualify for the State tournament. As WCD3 Champion in the fall tennis
season, Reid Martin qualified for the State Tennis Tournament held in the spring.
Rival of the Month: Coaches were asked to nominate one athlete from their team as Rival of the Month based on being a
good human, not on athletic performance.
Challenges and Next Steps for the Athletic Program: Promoting a “Purpose Based” athletic program will be ongoing.
Working toward ASB collaboration between the districts also needs attention. Both ASBs are scheduled to meet to preapprove their budgets for next year. ASB advisors will work with the principals to make sure everyone is on the same
page.
A draft outline laying out where practices and competitions for each sport will be held next year was shared at the joint
meeting. The AD will follow up with a memo to both high school principals to inform them of where practices and
competitions are to take place. If there are changes, Ms. Box will let them know with as much warning as possible.
The AD expressed her appreciation for both of the ground crews and facility managers at Chimacum and Port Townsend.

Port Townsend School District No. 50 / Chimacum School District No. 49
Board of Directors
1610 Blaine Street, Port Townsend, WA 98368

Special Joint Board Meeting
May 2, 2024
Page 3 of 4

She also thanked the boards for their support, and requested that each board reflect on its vision for the athletic program.
An open invitation was extended to show up for games and events with a request that each district’s WIAA
representative meet with the Athletic Director and Superintendents yearly. Dir. Aman thanked her for the invitation.

Dir. Nowak expressed his gratitude for Ms. Box on the amount of work and coordination it has taken combining two
districts into one athletic program. He also remarked that he could see the benefits of how coaches communicate with the
families and students. Dir. Klontz asked about athletes’ participation from beginning to end of a season. Discussion
followed regarding athletes who start and don’t complete a season and what the barriers might be, and how transportation
after practice can be problematic. Dir. Hudson pointed out the unfairness of having two state-level competitions taking
place during the same time in the spring when you have a student athlete like Reid Martin who has qualified for both
state competitions in different sports. It is unfortunate he has to choose; perhaps that scheduling issue can be taken up
with WIAA. Dir. Little shared that the sports app has been beneficial and as a parent with more than one athlete, it is
really appreciated. Dir. Klontz asked about the cost-sharing and the explanation and asked if an athlete plays more than
one sport they are counted multiple times. Ms. Box replied yes.
Student Rep. Maggie Emery commented that students feel that some sports are more recognized than other sports. Ms.
Box replied that some coaches, more than others, submit photos and articles for publication. Particularly when there is
achievement, it’s important that student athletes are recognized. Dir. Robocker shared that the schedule of more equitable
(and proportional) practice and game locations between the districts was greatly appreciated.
Dir. Nowak expressed his appreciation for the detailed report. And a round of thank yous to Shelby Box for the positive
work that is being done with the sports.
Business
Dir. Nowak asked for clarification about the voting during this meeting. Voting on the agreements for Athletics and
Transportation would be taken separately by each district.
Athletic Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
Port Townsend SD
Dir. Klontz made a motion to approve the Athletic MOU; Dir. Nowak seconded the motion. It passed unanimously.
Chimacum SD
Dir. Robocker made a motion to approve the Athletic MOU; Dir. Lamka seconded. The motion passed 4-0.
Transportation Interlocal Agreement
Port Townsend SD
Dir. Nowak made a motion to approve the Transportation Interlocal Agreement; Dir. Klontz seconded the motion, it was
approved 5-0.
Chimacum SD
Dir. Lamka made a motion to approve the Transportation ILA; Dir. Robocker seconded the motion. It passed 4-0
Dir. Little asked about exploring the process for moving toward electric buses.
Finance Dir. Art Clarke and Finance Dir. Amy Khile shared the perspective held by finance directors statewide which
was that the process would be a slow one. Dir. Hudson reiterated that both districts benefit from the current agreement,
moving forward.
Public Comment
Kelli Liske introduced herself as a Port Townsend graduate, a coach and the parent of two children. She supported the
Transportation Director’s recommendation that Port Townsend address the high school bell schedule and encouraged
making that change. Ms. Liske also suggested expanding the combine to include middle school students so that athletes

Port Townsend School District No. 50 / Chimacum School District No. 49
Board of Directors
1610 Blaine Street, Port Townsend, WA 98368

Special Joint Board Meeting
May 2, 2024
Page 4 of 4

could play together and align coaching. She would like to see more accounting transparency around the athletic budget,
and in conclusion felt that the current Agreement and 2024-25 plan for practice and hosting games was an improvement.
Future Meetings
Chimacum and Port Townsend Directors discussed revitalizing having a joint dinner gathering at Doc’s before the
Rivals’ Homecoming Football game, not as opponents as in the past, but as members of the same team.
The next joint meeting of the two boards to review the annual Transportation and Athletic reports was scheduled for the
first of Chimacum’s regular meetings in May 2025.
Board Comments
Chimacum thanked Port Townsend for hosting.
Adjournment
The special joint meeting was adjourned by consensus at 8:06 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
________________________________
Dr. Scott Mauk, Superintendent
Secretary to the Board

ATTEST: ___________________________
Dr. Roxanne Hudson
Board Director

________________________________
Dr. Linda Rosenbury, Superintendent
Secretary to the Board

ATTEST: ___________________________
Jennifer James-Wilson
Board Chair

