Chimacum Board Meeting – Business Session (6:00 PM)
Wednesday, January 24, 2024
Call to Order
Director Kristina Mayer called the meeting to order at 6:02 PM.
Present
Directors: Kristina Mayer, Tami Robocker, Mike Aman, Kathryn Lamka
Superintendent: Scott Mauk
Approval of Agenda
Director Kristina Mayer requested a motion to approve the agenda as recommended.
Director Tami Robocker made a motion to approve the agenda as recommended.
Director Mike Aman seconded the motion.
Motion carried (4,0)
Approval 01-10-2024 Minutes Work study Session
Director Kristina Mayer requested a motion to approve the minutes of January 10, 2024, meeting as
presented.
Director Mike Aman made a motion to approve the minutes as presented.
Director Kathryn Lamka seconded the motion.
Motion carried (4,0)
Public Comment (Agenda Item)
No Public Comments on Agenda Items.
Consent Agenda
December 2023 Balance Sheet & Budget Status Reports
Resolution 2024-1 – Emergency Electrical Repairs
SBP 3143 – Notification and Dissemination of Information about Student Offenses and Notification of
Threats of Violence or Harm
SBP 3205 – Sexual Harassment of Student Prohibited
SBP 3421 – Child Abuse and Neglect
SBP 5011 – Sexual Harassment of District Staff Prohibited
SBP 2004 – Performance Improvement Goals
SBP 2090 – Program Evaluation
SBP 2121 – Substance Abuse Program
SBP 2190 – Highly Capable Program
1|Page

SBP 2401 – Financial Education Mastery-Based Learning and Credit
SBP 2410 – High School Graduation Requirements
SBP 2413 – Equivalence Credit Opportunities
SBP 2415 – Performance-Based Pathway for High School Graduation
SBP 3207 – Prohibition of Harassment, Intimidation, and Bullying of Students
SBP 5005 – Employment and Volunteers: Disclosures, Certification Requirements, Assurance and
Approval
SBP 5271 – Reporting Improper Governmental Action
SBP 5280 – Separation from Employment
Director Kristina Mayer requested a motion to approve the consent agenda.
Director Kathryn Lamka made a motion to approve the consent agenda.
Director Tami Robocker seconded the motion.
Motion carried (4,0)
Recognition
Silver Spur
Dr. Mauk presented this month’s Silver Spur to CSD Bus Mechanics, Randy Hauf and Justin Klaasen. Dr.
Mauk praised their hard work and dedication. He explained how much we rely on them to make sure
our buses are in great condition to transport our students to and from school.
School Board Recognition
January is School Board Recognition month. Dr. Mauk recognized the Chimacum School Board members
for their commitment to education and the well-being of our students.
National Board Certificated Teachers
Dr. Mauk recognized the CSD teachers who are National Board Certified.
• Gary Coyan
• Al Gonzalez
• Joanne Schmitt
Gift/Grant Donations
Dr. Mauk acknowledged the grants received to the Chimacum School District:
Grant Donations
•
•

Healthy Kids, Healthy Schools Grant award of $200,000.00 towards a new playground for
Chimacum Elementary School by OSPI.
Health Science Grant award of $90,000.00 to support Science at high school level by OSPI.

2|Page

•

Farm to School Purchasing Grant of $10,000.00 to purchase local food for the school district by
Washington State Department of Agriculture.

He conveyed his gratitude to the staff for all their hard work applying for the grants, and explained these
grants are much needed financial support for the school district.
Director Kristina Mayer requested a motion to accept the grant donations.
Director Mike Aman made a motion to accept the grant donations.
Director Tami Robocker seconded the motion.
Motion carried (4,0)
Policy Review
SBP 5253 – Maintaining Professional Staff/Student Boundaries – First Reading
Dr. Mauk explained that the WSSDA updated this policy to clarify some of the wording to make the
policy transparent. The changes to the policy were made to highlight and address pre-existing
social/familial relationships between students and staff.
Director Kristina Mayer asked for a motion to adopt the policy as written.
Director Kathryn Lamka made a motion to adopt the policy as written.
Director Tami Robocker Seconded.
Motion carried (4,0) policy approved as written.
Superintendent/Management Reports
Culinary Arts Program Update
Food Service Director, Justin Oas gave an update on the culinary program. He highlighted the Culinary 1
class he is teaching, the FEED Food truck, school meals and what we can look forward to in the coming
years.
The Culinary class students have been collaborating with the elementary 4th & 5th grade students,
mentoring them, and learning the art of making food together. The students have been learning the
history of specific foods and how to write recipes as well.
Oas commented that the FEED food truck debut as the Chimacum Arts and Crafts Fair was a success. The
kids prepped and helped make the food. They were sold out on both days. He added they are working
on featuring the food truck at school events, which is a learning opportunity for students on how to run
a business.
Oas also explained that he is working on expanding the school menus to provide students with more
options. He has been working on adding more items to the salad bar so it will provide students with a
well-rounded meal if they decline the main meal option.
Oas is working on starting Culinary 2 class next year.

3|Page

Superintendent Report
CEE Data
Dr. Mauk presented CEE survey data tool kit. The participation was similar to last year, but he stressed it
could be improved and we are working on getting the participation numbers up.
The board decided to go over the data and to discuss the results at a future meeting.
Boundary Invasion
Dr. Mauk reported on the background related to SBP 5253 – Maintaining Professional Staff/Student
Boundaries. He went into detail about mandatory reporting, statewide trends, training, and culture. He
explained the district has been taking necessary steps to properly train the staff and gave a training
timeline.
Legislature Update
Dr. Mauk reminded the 2024 Legislative conference is coming up and he has been following some of the
bills that are important to our district. He explained the TWIO (this week in Olympia) publication is a
great resource on the legislative sessions.
Student Director Report
The student directors presented their report on their experience visiting the Elementary students. Both
have been working to expand the reach of student voice across the grade levels. The student directors
highlighted the younger students interests were to see a school newspaper as well as more recess time.
The younger students showed enthusiasm towards Eagle Leaders, working with older students and
being able to make a difference. Reid and Isaac plan on visiting more Elementary level classrooms in the
future.
Public Comments (General Comments)
CEA Vice President, Brian MacKenzie made a public comment.
Executive Session RCW 42.30.110 (E,G)
The board proceeded to a short recess at 7:28pm and reconvened for executive session at 7:34pm for an
estimated 60 minutes to evaluate the performance of a public employee and to discuss a legal matter.
No action to follow.
E. To evaluate the qualifications of an applicant for public employment or to review the performance of
a staff member; however, discussion of salaries, wages, and other conditions of employment to be
generally applied within the district will occur in a meeting open to the public, and when the board
elects to take the final action of hiring, setting the salary of an individual staff member or class of staff
members, or discharging or disciplining an employee, that action will be taken in a meeting open to the
public;
G. To discuss with legal counsel representing the district matters relating to district enforcement actions,
or litigation or potential litigation to which the district, the board, or a member acting in an official
capacity is, or is likely to become, a party, when public knowledge regarding the discussion is likely to
result in an adverse legal or financial consequence to the district.
The board reconvened from executive session at 8:17pm.
4|Page

Adjournment
Director Kristina Mayer adjourned the meeting at 8:17pm.
Recording of the meeting can be found at www.csd49.org/about/school-board/board-meetingrecordings.

_____________________________
Board Chair

5|Page

____________________________
Superintendent

