WASHOUGAL SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 112-06
Board of Directors' Meeting
Tuesday, March 9, 2010, 6:30 p.m.
PRESENT: Blaine Peterson, Board Director; Elaine Pfeifer, Board Director; Orlan Gessford, Board
Director; Ron Dinius, Board Director; Tom Huffman, Board Director; Teresa Baldwin,
Superintendent and Secretary to the Board.
1.
CALL TO ORDER – PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
Blaine Peterson called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. and led the pledge of allegiance.
2.
AGENDA REVISIONS
None
3.
COMMENTS – BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS
Ron Dinius – Ron recently toured Mr. O’Brien’s technical education classroom at Washougal High
School (WHS). He also looked at the online credit recovery class offered at WHS and was very
impressed with the program. Ron will attend the regional Washington State School Directors’
Association (WSSDA) conference in Stevenson on March 17, 2010. He is hoping to receive more
information from the state regarding school funding, and will share that with the board as it becomes
available.
Elaine Pfeifer – Elaine highlighted a recent Post-Record article regarding the American Sign
Language (ASL) program. She added that ASL students recently performed very well in the
regional competition and thanked WHS teacher Tami Grant for her work with the students.
Blaine Peterson – Blaine added to Elaine’s comments with news of recent choir student awards.
Rebecca Miner – Carol Boyden, the district’s assessment coordinator, and Rebecca recently held the
first of three informational sessions for parents regarding the new state assessments. Rebecca
introduced Shoko Fuchigami, WHS Japanese teacher, who asked WHS Japanese students Corrine
Murphy and Brian Price to share information about the Japanese Festival to be held on Saturday,
March 13 at WHS from 1:00 – 6:00 p.m.
Teresa Baldwin – Teresa shared the most recent edition of the Washougal School District (WSD)
Staff Insider communication. The Clark College Board of Trustees has invited the WSD Board of
Directors to a joint meeting on March 24, 2010 at 4:00 p.m. at Clark College. More signage has
been placed near the crosswalk in front of Hathaway Elementary School for added safety measure.
Additional safety precautions will be put in place as the E Street renovations take place. Teresa,
along with Blaine Peterson, will be participating in the interview process for the new Washougal
City Manager position. Teresa closed by congratulating the WHS students on the Robotics team for
receiving the silver medal at a recent competition in Portland, OR.
A. Classified Staff Appreciation
Teresa Baldwin recognized the district’s classified staff members in honor of Classified Employees
Appreciation week, March 8-12, 2010. She read a proclamation issued by the governor’s office.
She introduced the district’s public school employees (PSE) officers and presented them each with a
small token of appreciation. PSE officers include Linda Peters, President; Sherry Lorenz-Hunt,
Vice-President; Larry Guenther, Secretary; Janet Yanzick, Treasurer; and Trish Happs, Legislative
Representative. The board shook hands with the PSE officers, thanking them for their contributions.
4.
COMMENTS – CITIZENS
Michael Piekarski – Michael highlighted two fun events for students to take place later in the week.
On Friday, March 12, 2010, third and fourth graders will be showcasing their recipes and culinary
abilities in a “Kids Can Cook” event to take place at WHS from 12:00-12:45 p.m. On Saturday,

March 13, WHS students will be participating in a culinary competition at Battle Ground High
School. The board and the general public are invited to both events.
5.

CONSENT AGENDA

Board members received and reviewed the following documents in advance of the meeting:
A. Meeting Minutes (February 23, 2010)
B. Accounts Payable (March 2010)
General Fund
Warrant numbers 178566 – 178679 in the amount of $182,184.03 (Pay date: March 10, 2010)
ASB Fund
Warrant numbers 18063 – 18081 in the amount of $18,055.76 (Pay date: March 10, 2010)
C. Personnel Report
D. Contracts
E. Travel
F. Field Trips
G. Donations
Tom Huffman moved to approve the consent agenda as presented. Elaine Pfeifer seconded and the
motion carried unanimously.
6.

INFORMATIONAL PRESENTATIONS
A. School Improvement Plan: Jemtegaard Middle
Rebecca Miner introduced Dr. Ron Carlson, principal at Jemtegaard Middle School (JMS), to present
the JMS School Improvement Plan (SIP). Ron took the opportunity to publicly thank Linda Peters
for her contributions in the classroom at JMS. Ron also introduced intervention teacher Eric Johnson,
who was present. Ron presented the state assessment goals as measured by the 2010 Measurements
of Student Progress (MSP) assessments. He spoke about the alignment of curriculum and instruction
to the state standards in all subject areas, and how JMS is working on grade level and vertical grade
alignment, as well as curriculum mapping, during their professional learning community (PLC) and
staff meeting times. Ron also described the positive behavior intervention system (PBIS) used at the
school and the high-yield instructional strategies being employed to work toward the district’s goal of
intellectually challenging engaging (ICE) instruction. Examples of instruction from Ms. Davies and
Ms. Jacoby were shared. The board thanked Ron for the JMS SIP presentation.
7.

POLICY GOVERNANCE
A. Executive Limitation 4, Staff Treatment
B. Staff Panel
Blaine Peterson led a staff panel discussion for feedback related to Executive Limitation (EL) 4
regarding staff treatment. District employees participating in the discussion included Carol Baker,
Kay Ball, Sue Conway, Tami Grant, Eric Johnson, Erin Maier, Bruce Stanton and Holly Vonderohe.
The board thanked the panel members for their very valuable input. The board will review the
feedback from the panel discussion and bring the approval of EL-4 back to the March 23, 2010
meeting.
8.

BOARD ADJOUNRNMENT TO EXECUTIVE SESSION

RCW 42.30.110(2,3) Buy/Sell Property
Tom Huffman moved to adjourn to executive session for approximately 20 minutes with a possibility
of action upon return at 8:24 p.m. Orlan Gessford seconded and the motion carried unanimously.
RETURN FROM EXECUTIVE SESSION FOR ACTION
The board returned from executive session at 8:43 p.m.

9.

PROPOSALS FOR ACTION
A. Resolution 09-10-12: Property Purchase
Tom Huffman moved, seconded by Elaine Pfeifer, not to approve resolution 09-10-12 regarding the
purchase of property. The motion carried unanimously.
B. 2010-2013 Technology Plan
Rebecca Miner introduced Les Brown, Supervisor of Technology, to speak about the district’s 20102013 Technology Plan. Les noted that the plan was prepared with input from the Technology
Committee, which includes school staff and parent representatives. Les highlighted the major
changes to the plan, including the SMART goals. Rebecca added that in working toward some of the
goals, 8 technology courses for 24 clock hours have been offered this year. Approximately 100
teachers have participated, with great interest and support for the courses. The technology survey
data will be brought to the board at the June 8, 2010 meeting when the EL related to technology is
presented. Elaine Pfeifer moved to approve the district’s 2010-2013 Technology Plan as presented.
Tom Huffman seconded and the motion carried unanimously.
10.

BOARD WORK SESSION
A. Linkage Meeting Planning, March 16, 2010
Teresa Baldwin presented a proposed list of questions to serve as discussion prompts for the March
16, 2010 linkage meeting with the district’s guidance and counseling staff. Rebecca Miner reported
that about 7 staff members are planning to attend at this time. Others unable to attend may provide
the board with written input. Blaine Peterson has a conflict and will be unable to attend. Board Vice
President Ron Dinius will preside over the meeting.
11.
FUTURE AGENDA ITEMS
A discussion of EL-4 and the staff panel input will be on the March 23, 2010 agenda.
12.

BOARD EVALUATION AND ADJOURNMENT

Blaine Peterson collected the board’s self-evaluation forms. The results are attached.
Elaine Pfeifer moved, seconded by Tom Huffman, to adjourn at 9:17 p.m. The motion carried
unanimously.
Dated this 23rd day of March 2010

______________________________
President

______________________________
Secretary to the Board

