La Conner School Board of Directors
Minutes of Special Study Session Meeting
Monday, June 10, 2024, 5:00 PM
District Office Board Room in person and via Zoom
  1. Opening Items: 
A. Call to Order – President Susie Deyo called the meeting to order at 5:00 pm. 
C. Flag Salute - Those present joined in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D. Roll Call - Board Directors John Agen, Kim Pedroza, and President Susie Deyo were present. Board Director Jeremy Wilbur was present on the telephone at 5:02 pm. Board Alana Quintasket was absent. Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram, and Executive Assistant Cherri Kahns were present. Superintendent Will Nelson was absent.
E. Approval of Agenda – Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to approve the agenda as presented. Motion carried 3-0.
  2. Action Items:
A. Accounts Payable and Payroll - Director Pedroza moved, and Director Agen seconded to approve accounts payable and payroll as presented. Motion carried 4-0.

B. Personnel Actions - Director Pedroza moved, and Director Agen seconded to approve the June 10 personnel actions as presented. Motion carried 4-0.
  C. Recommend Appointing Student Representatives for the 2024-2025 SY –
On May 31, Directors Pedroza and Quintasket interviewed candidates interested in serving as student representatives on the board for the 2024-2025 school year. Director Pedroza recommends appointing incoming freshman Emmalin Goodman and incoming sophomore Kellie Cayou-Lockrem to serve as the new student representatives effective August 26, 2024. She stated, “Both of these girls are just dynamic.” “They’re amazing kids.” Both girls are willing to take on the heavier workload.
  Board member John Agen applauded the choices. Per Policy and Procedure 1250, he wants to see a monthly board report where the student representatives bring information and recommendations to the board in addition to their annual projects.

Director Pedroza moved, and Director Agen seconded to appoint Emmalin Goodman and Kellie Cayou-Lockrem to serve as school board student representatives for the 2024-2025 school year. Motion carried 4-0.

President Deyo praised the district’s school board student representative program and appreciated having the students’ voices represented. Emmalin Goodman and Kellie Cayou-Lockrem will be sworn in at the August 26 board meeting.

D. 2024-26 NWESD Stronger Connections Data Sharing Agreement #5929-03 -Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to adopt the 2024-2026 NWESD Stronger Connection Data Sharing Agreement #5929-03 as submitted. Motion carried 4-0.

E. Extension of Existing Contract of the Washington State Department of Commerce Energy Division | Energy Programs in Communities Solar plus Storage for Resilient Communities Program for $16,313 - Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram stated we received the grant last year and this is only an extension of the contract to the end of 2024 with the state Department of Commerce Energy Division. Our District is in the running to receive the grant-funded solarization project that would allow the school campus to serve as a community emergency shelter, among other benefits.

Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to extend the existing contract of the Washington State Department of Commerce Energy Division | Energy Programs in Communities Solar plus Storage for Resilient Communities Program for $16,313 to the end of 2024 as submitted. Motion carried 4-0.

F. 2024 Swinomish Tribe Addendum #3 to 2021 Interlocal Agreement - Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram shared the great news that the Swinomish Indian Tribal Community will again provide significant financial aid to the school district, committing to $500,000 in unrestricted funds and $40,000 in technology support for 2024-25. The process has changed now and we need to bid on projects, purchase, and then invoice the Swinomish Tribe to be reimbursed. In the next few weeks, we should receive the first round of funds for $250,000.

Director Pedroza moved, and Director Agen seconded to approve the 2024 Swinomish Tribe Addendum #3 to the 2021 Interlocal Agreement. Motion carried 3-0-1 with Director Wilbur abstaining because he sits on the Swinomish Tribal Senate.

President Deyo, on behalf of the school board, thanked the Swinomish Tribal Community for its generous donation and gift. We can’t thank the tribe enough for their generosity and commitment to our district.

3. Discussion Items:  
A. Kelly Kjarstad – Briefing of the Food Service Program - Food service supervisor Kelly Kjarstad presented a detailed report on food services. School cafeterias are now serving a higher percentage of students. Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction has given La Conner a couple of shout-outs for its food service. They have created a training video from our district. The most visible of those is the inclusion of La Conner’s salmon chowder recipe on the OSPI website.

Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram stated her department secured several competitive grants for $81,800 over the past year allowing us to serve local produce and meats. The grants are important because our district doesn’t have those funds available.
  Kelly stated we purchased a delivery truck, new ovens, a tilt skillet, a work table, workstations, and miscellaneous warmers. We also received a $12,000 Farm to School Purchasing grant from the state Department of Agriculture. We received over 1090 pounds of organic protein: beef, pork roast, salmon, bison, and pork. We’ve been approved for a new program to include ingenious meals.

LCSD is CTE for free meals so the guidelines are much stricter. The breakfast bars we serve have a lot less sugar and sodium than bars you can purchase from stores. To serve a hot breakfast, we would need 100% buy-in from all the teachers because they would do almost all the work. OSPI doesn’t allow us to serve leftovers to students or serve second helpings. To provide meals for staff and adults to purchase, a separate food line would need to be established and staffed. These meals aren’t reimbursable by the state. All meal menus are available on our website. Kelly will email the last few months of menus to the school board directors.

Director Pedroza and Kelly Kjarstad will work together with OSPI regarding the state guidelines and to see what can be done to provide more food available for our students, especially our athletes, and adults.

B. Science K-12 Curriculum Recommendation - Beth Clothier, Director of Teaching and Learning presented a PPT and recommendation for K-5 mystery science and 6-12 grade science curriculum. She stated that our Elementary School teachers are familiar with Mystery Science. The PPT is available in BoardDocs.
  Elementary Principal Heather Fakkema reported that elementary teachers only have an hour per week to teach science. She supports the proposed curriculum and is confident our kids will do well. Board directors liked the lesson plans and asked if the Braves’ Hub would teach some units.

Grades 6-8 science – Teacher Vince Cicotte likes the proposed curriculum. It allows him to interview and check in with each student to be sure they understand the concepts. Although there isn’t a cost to purchase textbooks, they would like funds to purchase lab materials.

High School Science – we visited Bellingham chemistry and physics classes. Teacher Todd Hinderman is excited to take the lead in piloting the new science curriculum that is student-driven with very interesting topics.

The school board will adopt the proposed K-12 science curriculum at the June 24 regular board meeting.

C. Physical Education (PE) K-5 Curriculum Recommendation - Beth Clothier, Director of Teaching and Learning presented a PPT and recommendation for the K-5 SPARK physical education curriculum. Currently, our P.E. teachers have been developing their own curricula. SPARK is used by other school districts in the county. The PPT is available in BoardDocs. The board will adopt the proposed K-5 SPARK PE curriculum at the June 24 regular board meeting.

D. Board Retreat - June 24 from noon - 5:00 pm. Regular Board meeting to follow at approximately 5:00 pm – President Deyo shared a draft agenda with board directors and asked for feedback on the agenda topics and schedule.

E. WSSDA Fall Conference in Spokane - November 21-23 – President Deyo, Directors Agen, and Pedroza committed to attending the WSSDA conference in Spokane November 21-23. Director Pedroza will contact the incoming student representatives to be sure their schedule will allow them to attend the conference. Following registration, there is a $125 cancellation fee before October. Any cancellations after October will not be refunded. Board Directors will be responsible for paying for any cancellation fees and registration and hotel fees if they cancel after committing to attend.

4. Policy Review:
A. First Reading – No policies under first reading.
B. Second Reading – No policies under second reading.

5. Closing Items:
A. Future Meetings
June 18, 2024 - WSSDA New Director Network training (must pre-register) noon-1 pm via Zoom
June 24, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
NO MEETING - July 8, 2024 - Study Session 
July 16, 2024 - WSSDA New Director Network training (must pre-register) noon-1 pm via Zoom
NO MEETING - July 22, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting
July 29, 2024 - @ 9:00 am Special Meeting Public Hearing Budget adopts F195 Budget for the 2024-2025 SY
August 9, 2024 - Study Session 
August 23, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
C. Adjourn: Director Agen moved to adjourn the meeting at 6:20 p.m.
    ____________________________     __________________________________________­­­­­
Susie Deyo, President                        Will Makoyiisaaminaa Nelson, Ed.D., Superintendent or
                                                       Dave Cram, Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, Operations
   