La Conner School Board of Directors
Minutes of Regular Board Meeting
Monday, May 20, 2024, 5:00 PM
District Office Board Room in person and via Zoom
  1. Opening Items: 
A. Call to Order – President Susie Deyo called the meeting to order at 5:00 pm. 
C. Flag Salute - Those present joined in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D. Roll Call - Board Directors John Agen, Kim Pedroza, Alana Quintasket, and President Susie Deyo were present. Board Director Jeremy Wilbur was present at 5:07 pm. Student Representative Taylor-Rae Cayou was present. Student Representative Josi Straatof was absent. Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, Operations Dave Cram and Executive Assistant Cherri Kahns were present. Superintendent Will Nelson was absent.
E. Approval of Agenda – Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to approve the agenda as presented. Motion carried 4-0.
  2. Consent Agenda:
Director Agen moved, and Director Quintasket seconded to approve the Consent Agenda as presented. Motion carried 4-0. Items on the Consent Agenda included (all of which are available on BoardDocs):
Minutes April 22, 2024 Regular Board meeting
Minutes May 6, 2024, Special Meeting Study Session
AP Invoices for $84,002.31 May 20
AP Payroll and ACH Warrant Numbers 433786 through 433821 totaling $105,343.53_051524JE
Personnel Actions May 20, 2024
2024-25 ILA NWESD Skagit County Detention Center Education Program
2024-25 NWESD Open Doors Youth Reengagement Program Contract
2024-25 NWESD Scope of Work Open Doors – Youth Reengagement Program
  3. Public Comment:
A. Public Comment Guidelines - We welcome and appreciate hearing from our citizens regarding personal or public interest issues. The board requires those who wish to speak (but not all attendees) to sign in so that the board has a tally of individuals who wish to speak and can call them forward. When called forward, individuals will identify themselves and proceed to make comments, limited to 3 minutes per person, time may not be deferred during the public meeting and should be presented respectfully. The board is not obligated to respond to questions or challenges made during the public comment period and the board’s silence will not signal agreement or endorsement of the speaker’s remarks. The board may control the time, place, and manner of public comment. The chair may terminate an individual's statement when the allotted time has passed and may interrupt a speaker to require the same standard of civility the board imposes on itself.
No public comment.
  4. Special Recognition:
A. Retiree and Volunteer Recognition – President Deyo recognized, praised, and thanked the following retirees.
Linda Pierson - 23 Years
Linda Sovie - 21 Years
Barbara Wolf - 18 Years
Jennifer Moyer - 7 Years
President Deyo also recognized, praised, and thanked the volunteers who donated so much of their time and expertise to our district. She welcomed and encouraged board directors and community members to attend the Retirement and Volunteer Recognition Event on Tuesday, May 21st, from 2:45-4:00 pm in the MS Gym. A complete list of the volunteers is available in BoardDocs.
  5. Action Items:
A. Interim Superintendent Oath of Office - President Deyo publicly thanked Superintendent Will Nelson for his service to our district over the past three years and wished him well in his new role as a WWU professor. Two board directors met with staff to hear about their needs, concerns, and suggestions. The board determined it would be best for our district to appoint an interim superintendent within our district to serve the next year. This would allow sufficient time to make decisions to conduct a superintendent search after the first of the year.
  Director Agen moved and Director Pedroza seconded, to appoint Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, Operations Dave Cram to serve as interim superintendent for the 2024-2025 school year effective July 1, 2024. Motion carried 5-0.
  President Deyo administered the oath of office to incoming Interim Superintendent David Cram to serve as Superintendent of La Conner School District effective July 1, 2024.
  B. Resolution No. 24-07 Form B - Dave Cram Certificate of Manual Signature New Superintendent Effective July 1, 2024 - Director Agen moved and Director Quintasket seconded, to approve Resolution No. 24-07 Form B that allows David Cram to sign the Certificate of Manual Signature serving as the new Interim Superintendent Effective July 1, 2024. Motion carried 5-0.
  C. Resolution No. 24-08 Form C - Dave Cram Certificate of Facsimile Signature New Superintendent Effective July 1, 2024 - Director Agen moved and Director Pedroza seconded, to approve Resolution No. 24-08 Form C that allows David Cram to sign the Certificate of Facsimile serving as the new Interim Superintendent Effective July 1, 2024. Motion carried 5-0.
  D. Resolution No. 24-09 Form D - Dave Cram Certificate of Warrant Signature New Superintendent Effective July 1, 2024 - Director Agen moved and Director Quintasket seconded, to approve Resolution No. 24-09 Form D that allows David Cram to sign the Certificate of Warrants serving as the new Interim Superintendent Effective July 1, 2024. Motion carried 5-0.
  E. Resolution No. 24-10 Form E - Dave Cram Certificate of Invest Funds New Superintendent Effective July 1, 2024 - Director Agen moved and Director Pedroza seconded, to approve Resolution No. 24-10 Form E that allows David Cram to sign the Certificate of Invest Funds serving as the new Interim Superintendent Effective July 1, 2024. Motion carried 5-0.
  F. Resolution No. 24-11 Form F - Dave Cram Designation of District Agent New Superintendent Effective July 1, 2024 - Director Agen moved and Director Quintasket seconded, to approve Resolution No. 24-11 Form D that designates David Cram to serve as the district agent for La Conner School District as the new Interim Superintendent Effective July 1, 2024. Motion carried 5-0.
  G. Resolution No. 24-12 Form G - Dave Cram Designation of Auditing Officers - Effective July 1, 2024 - Director Agen moved and Director Pedroza seconded, to approve Resolution No. 24-12 Form G that designates David Cram to serve as the auditing officer for La Conner School District as the new Interim Superintendent Effective July 1, 2024. Motion carried 5-0.
  H. Resolution No. 24-13 Form H - Dave Cram Designation of District Claims Agent New Superintendent Effective July 1, 2024 - Director Agen moved and Director Quintasket seconded, to approve Resolution No. 24-13 Form G that designates David Cram to serve as the district claims agent for La Conner School District as the new Interim Superintendent Effective July 1, 2024. Motion carried 5-0.
  I. Resolution 24-14 Certified Signatures of District Personnel Authorized to Sign School Construction Project Documents - Director Agen moved and Director Quintasket seconded, to approve Resolution No. 24-14 that allows David Cram authorization to sign for La Conner School District construction project documents as the new Interim Superintendent Effective July 1, 2024. Motion carried 5-0.
  J. Resolution 24-15 Adopt OSPI Study and Survey - Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, Operations Dave Cram introduced Tex Ladish, Senior Project Manager with NWESD 189 was present and Heidi Hansen from ESD 112 Construction Services Group was on Zoom. Together, they presented the Resolution, the draft 2024 the study and survey of our facilities, the BCA comparison scores, and Appendix A within the Study & Survey document to the Board. This high-level assessment study is completed every 6 years. They explained the scoring rubric and discussed the reasoning for the scoring difference from the 2013-2014 scores.

Director Agen moved and Director Wilbur seconded, to approve Resolution No. 24-15 to adopt the study and survey from OSPI as presented and recommended by Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, Operations Dave Cram. Motion carried 5-0.
  K. Cash Donation from La Conner Booster Club for 8th Grade Field Trip from Car Wash for $1373.76 - Director Agen moved, and Director Quintasket seconded to approve the $1373.76 cash donation from the La Conner Booster Club with funds raised from the 8th-grade car was to help fund the 8th-grade end of the year field trip to the Trampoline Park and Chick Fil A. Motion carried 5-0.
  L. Math Curriculum HS Recommendation - Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier brought a modern math book about business math asking the board to adopt this curriculum. It will cost the district $1000 with 80% will be paid by a CTE Grant. Teachers have reviewed and they support the adoption of the proposed curriculum.
  Director Wilbur moved, and Director Pedroza seconded the adoption of the math curriculum as presented and recommended by Beth Clothier, Director of Teaching and Learning. Motion carried 5-0.
  6. Discussion Items
A. Kindergarten, Transitional Kindergarten, and Jumpstart Forecast - Elementary Principal Heather Fakkema reported Kindergarten registration numbers are looking great for the 2024-2025 SY. To date, we have 29 kids enrolled which will require two classrooms. La Conner School District is currently gathering information on whether there is a need in our community for a transitional kindergarten program. If you have a child who will be four years old on or before August 31, 2024, they may qualify for a place in a transitional kindergarten classroom. Please complete this survey to help us determine whether or not there is a need for this program in our community. A flyer with a link to a survey has been distributed to families, PeachJar, La Conner Weekly News, and posted on our website and social media. Conway School District will share it with their community. We’re in the process of getting printing quotes from Skagit Publishing. As of today, 10 surveys have been submitted.
  Currently, 7 seats (out of 15) are filled for Kindergarten Jumpstart at the end of July. Chloe and Annie are contacting families and sending out welcome letters.
  B. 8th Grade Promotion and Senior Graduation Celebrations – Eric Crinklaw, Secondary Counselor submitted a PPT that is available in BoardDocs. However, Eric is unable to attend the board meeting because he is busy monitoring the seniors giving their presentations that they are required to complete after the completion of their high school and beyond plan, Beth Clothier, Director of Teaching and Learning, and Secondary Principal Christine Tripp presented information to the board and stated the presentation format has changed positively this year. Student Representative Cayou stated she liked the well-organized template to follow.
Presentation structure: The student is provided the following template to guide their presentation formatting. Students are encouraged to exhibit their unique personalities when designing their presentations. The template is a guide with instructions on where to locate information in school data solutions if needed.
Sign-up procedure: Students select their time slot to allow for student/family choice of time based on availability. 
Schedule: Students select a time slot between 4 pm and 6 pm on May 15th, 16th, 20th, 21st. Students presenting in the 5 pm hour are asked to arrive by 4:45 pm and stay until the end of the hour to provide support for other students.
Location: Auditorium, use of a microphone and stage is optional but many have chosen on stage with the microphone.
Presentation Length: 10 minutes
Format: groups of 6 students per hour, students can invite up to 2 “trusted adults” to the presentation. Each student presents to an audience of 8-20 audience members.
Grading: The rubric is focused on presentation skills as other work is graded in advisory.
Feedback/Questions: Any audience member can ask follow-up questions related to the presentation. 
Resource Allocation Note: This format has the least amount of impact on staff resources and can be managed by the school counselor without impacting instructional time.
Below is a list of proposed changes for the 2024-2025 SY based on feedback from staff and the class of 2024.
Increase presentation length to 20-minute time slots
Invite community members and district-wide staff
Reduce time slots to 3 students per hour and allow students to leave after their 20 minutes
Reduce redundancy in the template
Add community service/cultural service slide
Director Agen suggests encouraging 11th graders to attend the presentations so they have an idea of the expectations for their senior year.
  Beth Clothier, Director of Teaching and Learning, and Secondary Principal Christine Tripp shared that 47 8th graders are promoting on Wednesday, June 5 in the HS gym to accommodate the large class size. Director Pedroza will attend and possibly Director Agen.
  We have 40 seniors graduating on Thursday, June 6 at the Jack Whittaker Stadium. Following the Alumni banquet, the Seniors will leave on their senior trip to Disneyland early Sunday morning, Many 3.5 GPA or higher awards will be presented to many students. President Deyo, Directors Agen, and Pedroza will attend graduation.

Athletic Director /Secondary Principal Christine Tripp announced three golfers, one junior tennis player, and 19 track and field athletes are heading off to compete at State.
  Student Representative Taylor Rae Cayou was selected First Team All-League for Softball.
  C. What About Math/Reading? - Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier shared a flyer promoting Literacy Night on Thursday, May 23 at the Swinomish Boys and Girls Club. Dinner will be provided. She encouraged everyone to attend the celebration and conversation around Native Student Literacy in Washington State. There will be Lushootseed bingo, representatives from the La Conner Swinomish Library, and community partners will be in attendance to offer feedback and guidance around Native student literacy. The suggestion was made to promote these types of events well in advance to get them calendars.

  D. 2023-2024 Student Representative Recognition - The board recognized and thanked Student Representative Taylor Rae Cayou for her commitment and great work serving as the school board student representative. President Deyo presented a floral arrangement and card thanking Taylor Rae Cayou. She is also graduating with an AA from Skagit Valley College in June.
  Student Representative Taylor Rae Cayou thanked the board for the opportunity. She didn’t even know anything about the school board. Secondary Counselor Lori Buher talked her into applying. She stated the meetings are interesting. She has enjoyed learning about all the happenings in the district and community. She enjoyed attending the WSSDA annual conference.
  Student Representative Josi Straatoff isn’t present but received the same accolades.
  E. 2024-2025 Student Representative Applications – Four student representative applications have been received. Directors Pedroza and Quintasket will interview the four candidates on Friday and make a recommendation to the board at the next meeting. President Deyo would like the student representatives to be sworn in and begin serving at the August 26th regular board meeting.
  F. Launching New Website Apptegy - Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier reported that we will be migrating to a new website, Apptegy at the end of the month. Currently, Final Site merged with our current host Blackboard. They are sunsetting what we currently have. The original goal was to migrate before the end of the school year but there is a lot more work that needs to be completed before we change.
  G. Launching New Facilities Software FMX - Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, Operations Dave Cram stated we’ll soon be switching from SchoolDude to FMX for facility use and rentals.
  H. Board Directors Complete WSSDA Board Assessment – President Deyo reminded all the directors to complete the WSSDA Board Assessment by June 5.
  D. Board Retreat in June – President Deyo announced the board is considering holding its annual board retreat on June 24. Details to follow.
  7. District Written Reports:
A. MS and HS ASB Update / Student Representative Monthly Reports – MS ASB and Student Representative Taylor Rae Cayou submitted written reports that are available in BoardDocs.
B. 21st Century Learning Program – Ryan Patrick submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
C. Finance and Operations Monthly Report (Facilities, Transportation, Food Services) - Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram submitted a written financial report which is available in BoardDocs.
D. Community and Cultural Liaison Report – No written report submitted.
E. Community/Parent Committees - Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier submitted the minutes from the April NAPAC meeting and ACE Committee minutes since March 2024 which are available in BoardDocs.
F. Elementary Principal Report – Elementary Principal Heather Fakkema submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
G. Food Service Report – Kelly Kjarstad submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
H. Secondary Principal Report – Secondary Principal/Athletic Director Christine Tripp submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
I. Superintendent Report – No written report submitted.
J. Teaching and Learning Report - Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier submitted a written monthly report which is available in BoardDocs.
K. Technology Report –Ryan Hiller submitted a written financial report which is available in BoardDocs.
  8. Policy Review:
A. First Reading – No policies were read under the first reading.
B. Second Reading – President Deyo asked the board to postpone taking action on Policy 5411 – Staff Vacation.

Director Agen moved, and Director Quintasket seconded to approve the following policies as submitted:
Policies / Procedures
Policy 2020 Course Design, Selection, and Adoption of Instructional and Program Materials
Policy 2020P Procedure - Course Design, Selection, and Adoption of Instructional and Program Materials
Policy 2024 Online Learning
Policy 2024P Procedure - Online Learning
Policy 2025 Copyright Compliance
Policy 2025P Procedure - Copyright Compliance 
Policy 2027 District Ownership of Staff-Created Work
Policy 2027P Procedure -  District Ownership of Staff-Created Work 
Policy 2029 Animals as Part of the Instructional Program
Policy 2029P Procedure -  Animals as Part of the Instructional Program
Policy 2030 Service Animals in Schools
Policy 2030P Procedure -  Service Animals in Schools 
Policy 2255 Alternative Learning Experience Courses
Policy 2412 Diplomas for Veterans
Policy 2413 Equivalency Credit Opportunities
Policy 2414 Community Service
Policy 2414P Procedure - Community Service
Policy 2418 Waiver of High School Graduation Credits
Policy 2418F Form - Waiver of High School Graduation Credits
Policy 3131 District Attendance Area Transfers
Policy 3141 Nonresident Students
Policy 4320 Cooperative Programs with Other Districts, Public Agencies, Private Schools and Daycare Agencies
Motion carried 5-0.
  9. Closing Items:
A. Board Member Reports – Director Pedroza prepared and sent a letter to WIAA with concerns and unfairness about how Coupeville hosts districts for postseason play. Friday Harbor School District is in support of the letter. Director Agen would like specific issues addressed. He is disappointed with the non-committal response received from our WIAA Regional Representative. There was a brief conversation with Athletic Director Christine Trip on the process of hosting tournaments. The board asked if La Conner, Mount Vernon, or Anacortes would be interested in hosting a tournament. Christine Tripp stated tournaments are a lot of work and they require many people to work them while not making much money. You receive funds from the concessions and get refunded for facility workers. Usually, districts break even or may make a little money.
  B. Future Meetings Listed Below:
May 21, 2024 - WSSDA New Director Network training (must pre-register) noon-1 pm via Zoom
May 28, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
June 5, 2024 - 8th Grade Promotion @ 6:30
June 6, 2024 - High School Graduation @ 5:00
June 10, 2024 - Special Meeting Study Session @ 1:00 pm
June 18, 2024 - WSSDA New Director Network training (must pre-register) noon-1 pm via Zoom
June 24, 2024 – School Board Retreat noon-5:00 pm with lunch and Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
  C. Adjourn: Director Wilbur moved to adjourn the meeting at 6:12 p.m.
      ____________________________     ______________________________
Susie Deyo, President                         Will Makoyiisaaminaa Nelson, Ed.D., Superintendent
       