La Conner School Board of Directors
Minutes of Regular Board Meeting
Monday, March 25, 2024, 4:45 PM
District Office Board Room in person and via Zoom
  1. Opening Items: 
A. Call to Order – President Susie Deyo called the meeting to order at 5:00 pm. 
C. Flag Salute - Those present joined in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D. Roll Call - Board Directors John Agen, Kim Pedroza, Jeremy Wilbur, and President Susie Deyo were present. Board Director Alana Quintasket was present at 5:05 pm. Student Representative Taylor-Rae Cayou is present. Student Representative Josi Straatof is absent. Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram, Executive Assistant Cherri Kahns, and Superintendent Will Nelson were present.
E. Approval of Agenda – Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to approve the agenda as presented. Motion carried 4-0.
  2. Consent Agenda:
Director Agen moved, and Director Wilbur seconded to approve the Consent Agenda as presented. Motion carried 5-0. Items on the Consent Agenda included (all of which are available on BoardDocs):
Minutes February 26, 2024 Regular Board meeting
Minutes March 11, 2024 Study Session
Cancellation of Warrants AP & Payroll and ACH Voids/Cancellations, totaling ($90.00)
Warrants AP & Payroll and ACH Warrant Numbers 433534 through 433576, totaling $94,579.95
Invoice Listing for $ 69,907.52_032924JE 
Personnel Actions dated March 25, 2024
2023-2024 Sendan Center Contract
  3. Public Comment:
A. Public Comment Guidelines - We welcome and appreciate hearing from our citizens regarding personal or public interest issues. The board requires those who wish to speak (but not all attendees) to sign in so that the board has a tally of individuals who wish to speak and can call them forward. When called forward, individuals will identify themselves and proceed to make comments, limited to 3 minutes per person, time may not be deferred during the public meeting and should be presented respectfully. The board is not obligated to respond to questions or challenges made during the public comment period and the board’s silence will not signal agreement or endorsement of the speaker’s remarks. The board may control the time, place, and manner of public comment. The chair may terminate an individual's statement when the allotted time has passed and may interrupt a speaker to require the same standard of civility the board imposes on itself.
No public comment.
  4. Special Recognition
A. Halley Oh, 4th Grade Student - Receives Award of Excellence for the Washington State Reflections Art Contest – Principal Fakkema introduced Halley Oh and her parents and announced that Halley Oh, is a 4th-grade student, and was awarded the "Award of Excellence" distinction for Visual Arts – for her grade level in the Washington State Reflections Art Contest.
  The contest's theme for the 2023-2024 program was “I am Hopeful Because…” Halley's achievement is especially remarkable because she was ranked second in her age division out of 700 participants in the Visual Arts category at the state level. This is the first time La Conner PTSA has participated in the contest, and we are thrilled to have a winner. We celebrate Halley's outstanding accomplishment and wish her the best in her future endeavors.
  The WSPTA Reflections program is a National PTA arts recognition program that helps students between pre-K and grade 12 explore their thoughts, feelings, and ideas. By creating original works of art in response to a theme, students develop artistic literacy, increase confidence, and find a love for learning that will help them become more successful not only in school but in life. The theme for the 2024-2025 program was “Accepting Imperfection,” which was selected from student submissions. Any PTA/PTSA in good standing may sponsor the program, and students may only submit entries through a PTA/PTSA. Parent groups not affiliated with the National PTA are not eligible to sponsor this program. Halley Ho shared her artwork with the board directors and photos were taken.
  B. Girls Basketball Team and Coach Joe Harper District Champions and State Tournament Participants – Principal Tripp introduced the Coaches and players who attended to receive special recognition for the girls' basketball team, commending their achievements as league and district champions. The team was praised for their success despite the loss of senior players.
  C. Boys Basketball Team and Coach Lance Lopez District Champions, 2nd Place Finish Regional Round, and State Tournament Participants Principal Tripp introduced the boys' basketball coaches and players who were in attendance to receive special recognition and were praised for their performance as league champions advancing to the state playoffs Coach Lopez expressed pride in their efforts and looking forward to the next season.
  D. Swinomish Tribal Chairperson Steve Edwards – The board welcomed and invited Swinomish Tribal Chair Steve Edwards to join them at the table as a special guest and to have an open discussion. A group photo was taken. The conversation focused on building a stronger community and relationship between the school district and the Swinomish Tribe.

Chairman Edwards expressed gratitude for the invitation to the school board meeting and emphasized the importance of community unity and bridging divides. He reminisced about the close-knit community of the past and expressed concerns about the current divisions within the town. He highlighted the need for better relationships between different sides of the community, including the tribe and non-tribal members. Edwards discussed his personal experiences of growing up in the area and the changes he has observed over time.
  Chair Edwards stressed the importance of continuing to make strides for all kids to be successful in the classroom and socially. The discussion also touched on the need for more coordination between the school and the tribe. Attendance needs to improve to gain an education. The participants expressed commitment to providing a sense of inclusion and belonging for students, and to learn from and contribute to the state's decisions around literacy. He also expressed hope for improved relationships and collaboration moving forward, especially for the sake of the younger generation. Edwards appreciated the opportunity for dialogue and collaboration between the school board and the tribe, emphasizing the importance of working together for the benefit of all community members, particularly the children. We need to continue focusing on building bridges between LCSD and the Swinomish Tribe.
  A group photo was taken with the board directors and Chairman Edwards.
  5. Action Items
A. Resolution 24-04 WIAA Delegating Authority – After receiving multiple complaints from community members over the last few years regarding the bias and unfairness at Coupeville School District during playoffs, WIAA Representative Kim Pedroza is writing a letter to WIAA requesting all post-season games be scheduled and played at a neutral site.
Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to adopting Resolution 24-04 the annual WIAA Delegating Authority. Motion carried 5-0.
  B. La Conner Rotary $3000 Cash Donation - $1000 Towards Each School - Director Wilbur moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to accept the very generous $3000 cash donation from La Conner Rotary with $1000 to go towards the needs of each school. Motion carried 5-0.
  C. Mike Collins Donation to the Music Program - Two Instruments Valued at $50 - Director Agen moved, and Director Wilbur seconded to acceptance of the musical instruments, (banjo and two coronets) donated to the music program valued at $50. Motion carried 5-0.
  D. Ben Barrett’s Donation of Office Supplies Valued At $500 - Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to accept the donation of office supplies valued at $500 to be used in the school offices. Motion carried 5-0.
  E. Summer School Program 2024 – Director Ryan Patrick presented the Summer Adventure Camp 2024 will be for four weeks. Camp will start with week 1 on July 8th and follow for the next three weeks. Camp will run Monday -Thursday from 9:00 – 2:00. Students who are entering grades 1 – 8 are eligible to sign up. Four different classes will rotate through each week with each grade group able to sign up for each class once. Classes will be split by the following:  Grades 1 / 2. Grades 3 / 4. Grades 5 / 6. Grades 7 / 8. Registration has begun for this year’s camp. Families can register their students online with a link or QR code and by phone or in person with the Braves Hub. The maximum per class is 25 students. The classes will have a focus on math, reading, and sciences. Summer Adventure Camp is free to our families since it’s funded through title funds and the 21st Century Grant. It has been well advertised through Remind, emails via FinalForms, PeachJar, and will be promoted at math night on May 1st.
  Director Agen moved, and Director Quintasket seconded to the Summer School Program 2024 as presented. Motion carried 5-0.
  6. Discussion Items
A. Solar Grant Update – Marylee Chamberlain and Mary Wohleb presented an update on the Skagit Valley Clean Energy Cooperative (SVCEC) solar grant application process and results from the February 3 Cascadia Renewables Feasibility Study at the library. and efforts to secure grants to solarize La Conner Schools. They attended the Department of Commerce pre-application meeting and learned that there is still a Solar Plus Storage grant program that fits with their plan to pursue the construction grants for the Elementary and Middle School buildings. There are some unknowns, particularly as it relates, to potential upgrade work on buildings and finding a financial mechanism that could help with the funding flow (basically assistance with the need to float funds with invoicing timelines).
  When they met with Cascadia Renewables for a final review of the feasibility study, they determined there is likely flexibility with the Department of Commerce to allow for potential adjustment needs and that staying the course with the applications made sense. They stated the grant process is competitive but favors proposals promoting equity and social justice, two high-priority items for the district. In this grant cycle (EPIC - Energy Programs in Communities) the focus is still on resiliency but with an emphasis on serving vulnerable and overburdened populations facing environmental and health disparities. The school district has several demographic parameters that fit this focus.
  This is a no-match grant, allowing the district to request funding without providing a match. Currently, $167 is available from the Department of Commerce for such grants. They emphasized the importance of board support and requested they sign and submit a letter of support for the solar project. Representatives from the Scheduled Clean Energy Alliance will assist with community engagement. They also provided reassurance regarding the competitive nature of the grant application, noting that the completed feasibility study puts the district ahead of other jurisdictions and agencies. Additionally, the fire station is another site for the solar project.

The board expressed enthusiasm for the project and agreed to provide the requested letter of support. The board thanked them for the many hours and great efforts they’ve invested in applying for the solar grants.
  B. Update on MTSS and MBL – Staff presented PPTs that are available in BoardDocs. Suzann Keith and Beth Clothier attended MBL training in New York, visiting several schools focusing on mastery-based learning. They observed student-led conferences and emphasized the importance of shared outcomes and fostering a sense of belonging to improve attendance and relationships within the community.
  They spent three days touring four different schools in New York to learn more about mastery-based learning, some middle schools, and some high schools. They witnessed 7th grade student-led conferences which were very impressive. The visit involved a school where a student showcased her engagement in various subjects. Schools were slightly larger than LCSD, on average there were approximately 400 students. Many schools had high populations of immigrant students and 70 to 80% of students receive free and reduced meals.
  The following district staff attended the Innovative Schools Summit in New York for MTSS training: Beth Clothier; Heather Fakkema-Hovde, Eric Crinklaw, Lisa Hedlund; and NWESD 189 staff Danielle Peterson, Tamara Shoup, Laqueta Williams, and Jodie DesBiens visited schools emphasizing social-emotional learning and proactive behavior response to behavior, catering to students with disengagement or mental health issues. The pre-conference session emphasized the growth of emotional intelligence for both students and adults. Steve Spangler, a keynote speaker known for his appearances on The Ellen Show, emphasizes the importance of hands-on learning experiences tied to grade-level content standards. Another impactful session discussed guiding students to accept responsibility for their actions and change their behavior in a positive, instructional manner. The meeting participants also discussed the expensive yet effective tools for proactive student engagement. He highlighted the need for hands-on, engaging experiences that empower students and foster student voices in their learning process.
  The relationship between student attendance and community belonging. They reflected on the significance of building strong relationships with students and adults within the community to promote a sense of belonging, which ultimately impacts attendance rates. Larry Thompson's perspective underscores the importance of maintaining relationships during challenging times. They emphasized the need to focus on inclusion and belonging in their work to improve attendance outcomes.
  C. What About Math/Reading? - Beth Clothier, Director of Teaching and Learning presented a PPT that is available in BoardDocs. Beth Clothier discussed joining a state-level Native literacy work group focusing on K-2 literacy for Native students through OSPI. The group aims to ensure Native students achieve reading proficiency by the end of second grade, with a timeline extending to July 2025.
  Our Tribal ESAs offer after-school study halls for K-12 with grades three through 12 on campus and K-2 at Swinomish. They will serve any kid that comes to them, but their priority is the Swinomish students. They provide transportation, they provide snacks, they provide oversight, and sometimes, especially at the high school level, they specifically request students join, and sometimes it's just whoever comes.
Our school counseling team; Eric Crinklaw and Maura Jurenka have been meeting with every single student in the high school to discuss their four-year plan. Determining if a student needs credit recovery and what that might look like.
  We’re also working on building our system of competency credits, whether it's cultural, outside-of-school learning, work, internships, or whatever creative way for a student to earn credits to graduate.

D. WSSDA Regional Meeting April 27 in Friday Harbor – Contact Cherri if you are interested in attending the WSSDA Regional Meeting in Friday Harbor all day on April 27, 2024, for her to register and pay the $30 pp to attend. Information is available through the link https://wssda.org/events/regional-meetings/
  E. Little Braves' Preschool –  Principal Heather Fakkema explained the announcement of the closure of the Little Braves preschool was due to budget reductions by the National Head Start organization. The National Head Start organization is reducing the Skagit Island County Head Start budget because they needed to right size. They were understaffed because they couldn't find enough people to hire. We’re discussing plans for transitional kindergarten which would fill the gap nicely for some of our preschoolers. We’re in collaboration with other preschool programs, such as Swinomish ECAP, which were discussed to accommodate affected students and families.
  F. Student Representative Topics – No report was presented.
  7. District Written Reports: President Deyo thanked everyone’s hard work who submitted a written report.
A. MS and HS ASB Update / Student Representative Monthly Reports – MS ASB submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
B. 21st Century Learning Program – Ryan Patrick submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
C. Community and Cultural Liaison Report – No report submitted.
D. Community/Parent Committees - Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier submitted a link from the March NAPAC meeting which is available in BoardDocs. No minutes were taken.
E. Elementary Principal Report – Elementary Principal Heather Fakkema submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
F. Finance and Operations Monthly Report (Facilities, Transportation, Food Services) - Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram submitted a written financial report which is available in BoardDocs.
G. Food Service Report – Kelly Kjarstad submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
H. LEA and PSE Union Report - No report submitted.
I. Secondary Principal Report – Secondary Principal/Athletic Director Christine Tripp submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
J. Superintendent Report - Superintendent Will Nelson submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
K. Teaching and Learning Report - Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier submitted a written monthly report which is available in BoardDocs.
L. Technology Report – No report was submitted from Ryan Hiller.
  8. Pending Items:  No pending items.
  9. Policy Review:
A. First Reading – No policies were read under the first reading.
B. Second Reading – Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to approve the following policies as submitted. Motion carried 5-0.
Policies / Procedures
Policy 1450 REVISED Absence of a Board Member
Policy 2005 School Improvement Plans
Policy 2240 Summer School
Policy 2413 Equivalency Credit Opportunities
Policy 2415 Performance-Based Pathway for High School Graduation
Policy 5005 Employment and Volunteers: Disclosures, Certification Requirements, Assurances, and Approval
Policy 5251 Conflicts of Interest
Policy 5252 Staff Participation in Political Activities
Policy 5253 Maintaining Professional Staff/Student Boundaries
Policy 5260 Personnel Records; Policy 5270 Resolution of Staff Complaints
Policy 5271 Reporting Improper Governmental Action (Whistleblower Protection)
Policy 5281 Disciplinary Action and Discharge
Policy 5315 Garnishment and Personal Credit Problems
  10. Closing Items:
A. Board Member Reports – No reports were given.
B. Future Meetings Listed Below:
April 8, 2024 - Special Meeting Study Session @ 1:00 pm – Director Agen will not attend while on vacation.
April 16, 2024 - WSSDA New Director Network training (must pre-register) noon-1 pm Zoom
April 22, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
April 27, 2024 - WSSDA Regional Meeting in Friday Harbor
 https://wssda.org/events/regional-meetings/
May 13, 2024 - Special Meeting Study Session @ 1:00 pm
May 14, 2024 - Required WSSDA training Strengthening Tribal Consultation for School Directors, Swinomish Casino @ 8:30
May 21, 2024 - WSSDA New Director Network training (must pre-register) noon-1 pm Zoom
May 28, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
June 5, 2024 - 8th Grade Promotion @ 6:30
June 6, 2024 - High School Graduation @ 5:00
June 10, 2024 - Special Meeting Study Session @ 1:00 pm
June 18, 2024 - WSSDA New Director Network training (must pre-register) noon-1 pm Zoom
June 24, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
July 16, 2024 - WSSDA New Director Network training (must pre-register) noon-1 pm Zoom
C. Adjourn: Director Wilbur moved to adjourn the meeting at 7:31 p.m.
      ____________________________     __________________________________________­­­­­
Susie Deyo, President                         Will Makoyiisaaminaa Nelson, Ed.D., Superintendent
 