  La Conner School Board of Directors
Minutes of Regular Board Meeting
Monday, February 26, 2024, 5:00 PM
District Office Board Room in person and via Zoom
  1. Opening Items: 
A. Call to Order – President Susie Deyo called the meeting to order at 5:00 pm. 
C. Flag Salute - Those present joined in the Pledge of Allegiance.
D. Roll Call - Board Directors John Agen, Kim Pedroza, Jeremy Wilbur, and President Susie Deyo were present. Board Director Alana Quintasket attended via Zoom. Student Representative Josi Straatof was present. Student Representative Taylor-Rae Cayou is absent. Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram, Executive Assistant Cherri Kahns, and Superintendent Will Nelson were present.
E. Approval of Agenda – Director Agen moved, and Director Wilbur seconded to approve the agenda as presented. Motion carried 5-0.
  2. Consent Agenda:
Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to approve the Consent Agenda as presented. Motion carried 5-0. Items on the Consent Agenda included (all of which are available on BoardDocs):
January 22, 2024, Regular Meeting Minutes 
February 12, 2024, Special Meeting Study Session - Revised 2/26/2024
Warrants AP & Payroll and ACH #s 433423 through 433469, totaling $85,678.40
Invoices in the amount of $132,152.76_022924
Personnel Actions dated February 26, 2024
  President Deyo thanked Bryan Milliren for stepping up to help coach our middle school basketball team. President Deyo also shared that our boys’ and girls’ basketball teams advanced to regionals. She thanked the community for attending and supporting our kids. Our boys played their hearts out and left it all on the court. Unfortunately, we lost in OT. A big thank you and shout out to Coach Joe Harper and Coach Lance Lopez for another great year.
  3. Public Comment:
A. Public Comment Guidelines - We welcome and appreciate hearing from our citizens regarding personal or public interest issues. The board requires those who wish to speak (but not all attendees) to sign in so that the board has a tally of individuals who wish to speak and can call them forward. When called forward, individuals will identify themselves and proceed to make comments, limited to 3 minutes per person, time may not be deferred during the public meeting and should be presented respectfully. The board is not obligated to respond to questions or challenges made during the public comment period and the board’s silence will not signal agreement or endorsement of the speaker’s remarks. The board may control the time, place, and manner of public comment. The chair may terminate an individual's statement when the allotted time has passed and may interrupt a speaker to require the same standard of civility the board imposes on itself.
  Alum, parents, and community members Tyler Dubuque, Dave Alvord, Tyler Zimmerman, and Judy Zimmerman spoke on the topic of the future of the La Conner School District varsity football program. They all were in favor of keeping the football program in La Conner. They shared the following comments and suggestions:
We have a state-of-the-art weight room. We need to create a year-round weight program for our athletes. Pay a teacher an extra hour a day, before school, to come and monitor the weight room.
We pay taxes and want to see our kids succeed in football.
Sending our kids to Anacortes is not a solution.
Talking about enrollment numbers and attendance concerns – how will these numbers increase if you took away our football program?
Kids won’t stay in our district without a football program.
We have many native students who turn out for football.
We’re a small town community and many still attend Friday night football games.
What would we do for Homecoming and the week of Homecoming?
Need to promote feeder programs starting with the littles.
La Conner is full of traditions. Many community members enjoy attending Friday night football games.
A couple of years ago, we had a winning season under a coach we had only one year, coming out of COVID.
Need to recruit better coaches that are dedicated and passionate about football.
Tyler offered to meet to discuss his ideas and suggestions for our football program to succeed.
  Three Anacortes football coaches were present. They shared that Anacortes had a very successful football season after never winning a game last year. Anacortes School District discontinued football for a season for the same reason. They support our district and are willing to do whatever they can for our players to have a football season and are open to the idea of our students playing for Anacortes if that is what it comes down to.
  4. Action Items:
A. $2000 Cash Donation from La Conner Rotary for Braves' Hub After School Program – We’re in year 1 of a 5-year program. The grant doesn’t provide funds for food. A big thank you to our La Conner Rotary for helping financially provide snacks and food for our kids attending our afterschool program.

Director Wilbur moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to accept the generous $2000 cash donation from La Conner Rotary for Braves' Hub After School Program snack program. Motion carried 5-0.
B. $600 Cash Donation from La Conner Rotary for Senior Class of 2024
Director Agen moved, and Director Wilbur seconded to accept the generous $600 cash donation from La Conner Rotary for the Senior Class of 2024. Motion carried 5-0.
C. 2024 Out of Endorsement Approval Request 02-26-2024 - Superintendent Nelson stated we don’t have anyone in the Middle School who is endorsed to teach PE. Maddie Huscher has the experience to teach PE.
Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to approve the 2024 out-of-endorsement request dated 02-26-2024. Motion carried 5-0.
D. La Conner High School Football Program Recommendation
Athletic Director Christine Tripp held two well-attended community meetings to brainstorm options regarding the future of our varsity football program. Of course, there was a lot of passion on this topic. We need to consider the safety of our athletes with low participation numbers.
  Washington Interscholastic Activities Association (WIAA) denied the request by the district to move into the eight-man Northwest 1B League due to decreased enrollment and football participation since boys' soccer is offered at the same time, and we don’t have any feeder program from the middle school or youth football programs in our district.
  Athletic Director Christine Tripp presented three options to the board for consideration regarding the future of our varsity football program in the fall.
1. Eliminate football
2. Play an independent 8-man season (no postseason opportunities and most games will be on the road as the program tries to fit into the bye weeks of other teams. Other local teams that play eight-man football are Concrete, Darrington, Lummi Nation, and Tulalip Heritage.
3. Combine with Anacortes 
  Athletic Director Christine Tripp recommends a committee be formed to create actionable benchmarks for the coach and program. This committee should convene as soon as practicable and consist of, at minimum, the Athletic Director and Director of Operations and Finance.
  Director Pedroza moved, and Director Wilbur seconded for our high school football team to play in an independent 8-person league in the fall. Motion carried 5-0.
  Director Pedroza moved, and Director Wilbur seconded to amend her motion to accept Athletic Director Christine Tripp’s recommendation to form a committee to create actionable benchmarks for the football coach and program before May. Motion carried 5-0.
E. Resolution #24-02 Waiver for Parent-Teacher Conference Days
President Deyo asked if the district submitted a waiver to reduce the number of instructional days last year. If we did not, what would happen if we didn’t submit a request for a waiver this year which is the same as last year? President Deyo doesn’t support the Resolution because the kids need to be learning in the classroom those days.
  Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to approve Resolution #24-02 Waiver for Parent-Teacher Conference Days for the 2023-2024 school year.
Motion carried 4-1-0 with President Deyo voting nay.
F. Resolution # 24-03 Surplus 4 busses and 1 Toyota Prius
Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to approve Resolution # 24-03 to surplus 4 buses and 1 Toyota Prius. Motion carried 5-0.
G. Agreement with Attorney Keller Rohrback Social Media Litigation
Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded the approval of the agreement with Attorney Keller Rohrback for social media litigation. Motion carried 5-0.
H. Apptegy Contract New Website
Superintendent Nelson stated we’re losing our current website host this summer. We had to decide by December 31, 2023, to select which company we wanted to use. Apptegy’s offer had a more robust package. They offer a mobile app and Thrillshare which is comparable to our current Remind app allowing us to streamline the platforms for our families and staff.
  Director Wilbur moved, and Director Agen seconded the approval of the contract with Apptegy to launch a new website. Motion carried 5-0.
I. 2023-2024 Interlocal Contract with Oak Harbor School District for McKinney Vento Students - Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram stated currently we have any students that we transport with Oak Harbor. Dave spoke with NWESD and was informed that districts aren’t required to have this type of agreement on file. There isn’t any money exchanged. It just shows good faith if we need to transport student(s) in the future.
  Director Pedroza stated McKinney Vento requires districts to have interlocal agreements on file with all local school districts. She asked Dave to double-check the information he received regarding whether districts are required to have interlocal agreements on file.
  After discussion, the board decided not to take action on the 2023-2024 interlocal contract with Oak Harbor School District for McKinney Vento students.
  5. Discussion Items:
A. State Seismic Grant – Superintendent Nelson reported that a grant was submitted to OSPI for the  Phase 1 funding request for our School Seismic Safety Program for the following buildings:
La Conner Elementary School- Seismic Retrofit or in lieu of Retrofit School Replacement
La Conner Middle School - Seismic Retrofit or in lieu of Retrofit School Replacement
La Conner High School - Seismic Retrofit or in lieu of Retrofit School Replacement
This grant would provide $92,000 for a feasibility study to be paid by the state with no cost to the district with the ultimate goal to be able to build a new high school. When the middle school was built 20 years ago, the cost was $22 Million.

The cabinet met with state representatives via Zoom to discuss funding concerns with our district. Another meeting will be scheduled in person in the first part of May.
B. What About Math/Reading? I-READY Benchmark Assessment - Beth Clothier, Director of Teaching and Learning presented a PPT that is available in BoardDocs.
C. Student Representative Topics – Student Representative Josi Straatoff presented a PPT that is available in BoardDocs.
  6. District Written Reports: President Deyo thanked everyone’s hard work who submitted a written report.
A. MS and HS ASB Update / Student Representative Monthly Reports – MS ASB submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs. Student Representative Josi Straatof submitted a PPT as an ASB officer and presented the information to the board. The Class of 2024 needs to raise $5000 by the end of March to purchase plane tickets and an additional $7000 for the trip. On March 9 they are hosting a car wash at the Swinomish Casino. They have emailed the Mayor of La Conner asking to host a spaghetti feed in Maple Hall.
B. 21st Century Learning Program – Ryan Patrick submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
C. Community and Cultural Liaison Report – No report submitted.
D. Community/Parent Committees - Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier submitted a link from the February NAPAC meeting which is available in BoardDocs. No minutes were taken.
E. Elementary Principal Report – Elementary Principal Heather Fakkema submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
F. Finance and Operations Monthly Report (Facilities, Transportation, Food Services) - Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram submitted a written financial report which is available in BoardDocs. Dave Cram stated that 12 people attended a van training. Three expressed interest in driving a school bus. OSPI reduced our fund balance from 10% to 4%. We could be out of binding conditions if we meet the 4% fund balance.
G. Food Service Report – Kelly Kjarstad submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
H. LEA and PSE Union Report - No report submitted.
I. Secondary Principal Report – Secondary Principal/Athletic Director Christine Tripp submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
J. Superintendent Report - Superintendent Will Nelson submitted a written report which is available in BoardDocs.
K. Teaching and Learning Report - Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier submitted a written monthly report which is available in BoardDocs.
L. Technology Report – No report was submitted from Ryan Hiller.
6. Executive Session:
A. Executive Session - The school board will adjourn to executive session for 30 minutes. The purpose of the executive session is re: the performance of a public employee (Superintendent) per RCW 42.30.110(1)(g).
President Deyo adjourned the board meeting into executive session at 6:30 pm for 30 minutes. No action will be taken during the Executive Session.
President Deyo reconvened the regular board meeting at 7:00 pm.
7. Policy Review:
A. First Reading – No policies were read under the first reading.
B. Second Reading – Director Agen moved, and Director Wilbur seconded to approve the following policies as submitted. Motion carried 5-0.
Policies / Procedures
Policy 1310 Policy Adoption, Manuals, and Administrative Procedures
Policy 1320 Suspension of a Policy
Policy 1330 Administration in the Absence of a Policy or Procedure
Policy 1410 Executive or Closed Sessions
Policy 1420 Proposed Agenda and Consent Agenda
Policy 1420P - Procedures Proposed Agenda and Consent Agenda
Policy 1450 Absence of a Board Member (Attendance)
Policy 1620 The Board-Superintendent Relationship
Policy 1620P - Procedures the Board-Superintendent Relationship
Policy 1731 Board Member Expenses
Policy 1731P - Procedures Board Member Expenses
Policy 1732 Board Member Insurance
Policy 1733 Board Member Compensation required by Board Directors onboard payments 
Policy 1733P - Procedures Board Member Compensation  required by board directors on board payments
Policy 1805 Open Government Training
Policy 1810 Annual Governance Goals and Objectives
Policy 6610 Video Surveillance
Policy 6610P - Procedures Video Surveillance
7. Closing Items:
A. Board Member Reports – No reports were given.
B. Future Meetings Listed Below:
March 11, 2024 - Special Meeting Study Session @ 11:00 am
March 18, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
April 8, 2024 - Special Meeting Study Session @ 1:00 pm
April 22, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
May 13, 2024 - Special Meeting Study Session @ 1:00 pm
May 28, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
June 10, 2024 - Special Meeting Study Session @ 1:00 pm
June 24, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
C. Adjourn: Director Agen moved to adjourn the meeting at 7:01 p.m.
      ____________________________     ______________________________­­­­­
Susie Deyo, President                         Will Makoyiisaaminaa Nelson, Ed.D., Superintendent
 