La Conner School Board of Directors
Minutes of Special Study Meeting
Monday, March 11, 2024 @ 11:00 AM
Middle School Library
  1. Opening Items:  
A. Call to Order – President Susie Deyo called the meeting to order at 11:08 am.
B. Flag Salute - Those present joined in the Pledge of Allegiance.
C. Roll Call - Board Directors, John Agen, Alana Quintasket, Kim Pedroza, and President Susie Deyo were present. Board Director Jeremy Wilbur was absent. Student Representatives Straathof and Cayou were absent because they were in class. Superintendent Will Nelson and Executive Assistant Cherri Kahns were present. Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram was present at 12:50 pm.
D. Approval of Agenda – Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to approve the agenda as presented. Motion carried 4-0.
  2. Action Item:
A. Accounts Payable and Payroll - Agen moved, and Director Quintasket seconded to approve accounts payable and payroll as submitted and follows:
AP Check Summary with Board Certification 030124JE BMO
AP Warrant Numbers 433532 through 433533, totaling $3,575.79 030124JE BMO
Invoices 030124JE- BMO ONLY  in the amount of 3,575.79
Invoices for $94,579.95_031524JE
. Motion carried 4-0.
B. Personnel Actions – Director Agen moved, and Director Pedroza seconded to approve personnel actions dated March 11, 2024, as submitted. Motion carried 4-0.
  3. Discussion Items:
A. Middle School Library - Meet to Check-in with 25 Middle School Students and Provide Lunch - Approximate Time 11:10-11:40 am - Based on the discussions from both middle school and high school lunches, below is a summary of the key points that reflect the perspectives and an overview of specific issues and suggestions raised by students. Middle School students had a discussion with board directors over lunch on the four topics listed below:
Attendance – What are you noticing about student attendance?
Absenteeism: Noticing a significant number of students absent, especially in morning classes. 6th-grade students, notice more older students skipping class.
Students Easily distracted by phones – playing Fortnite
Types of Absences: Some students are frequently absent, while others show up later in the day.
Absentee Patterns: Out of classes with 20-25 students, 6-7 are typically absent, with 4 or 5 consistently being the same students.
Potential Solutions:
Provide incentives for perfect attendance, such as field trips to Mariner games and the Seattle Space Needle. Provide free time.
Consider providing a Zoom option for students home sick
Extra-curricular activities – What do you wish we had?
Desired Activities:
Legit dodgeball, farming club, pickleball, weight lifting, hockey, aviation, HomeEc, and outdoor education.
Interest in hunting-related activities and survival skills, hunters ed, shooting range practice, bow hunting.
More field trips to various locations including sports games, museums, and universities.
Request for additional clubs, including fishing or hunting clubs. Turkey hunting club – interest in a field trip to eastern Washington to hunt turkeys, 7th grade and up camp for fish & game – to learn fishing and hunting
Resource Needs:
Request for more sports equipment, specifically volleyballs and basketballs.
IReady Math – Is the curriculum engaging to you?
Curriculum Feedback:
Some students find IReady Math boring and prefer traditional paper-based assignments.
Mixed feelings about engagement levels.
Math from 5th grade to 6th grade math is hard. Need to have study hall available Mon-Thurs. Many don’t understand the math. Too embarrassed to ask for help in the classroom. Once we get behind, it’s very difficult to get caught up and then fail the class.
Kids are afraid of failure.
Academic Support:
Request for study hall availability Monday through Thursday to help struggling students catch up and provide transportation options.
Families signed up for math tutors at the beginning of the year but nothing has become of it. No follow-up from the office on their request.
Anything else? What do you think we need to know? Additional Concerns and Suggestions:
Cell Phone Policy: Most students suggest removing cell phones in all classrooms due to distractions and consistency across the board.
Security: Request to reintroduce security personnel on campus. Miss having our security officer.
Resource Allocation: Desire for more field trips, camps, and clubs.
Improve the quality and variety of school meals, including options for second servings and salad dressing choices.
Address concerns about bullying and some teacher’s rude behavior.
Enhance school events such as dances with new themes.
More field trips, camps, clubs, and more money for the HS baseball team
Like having an open gym
Science moves along too fast.
Would like an online shop with LC swag and sport-specific gear
Want a good batting cage
  B. Meet with Eric Crinklaw - Student Options – Secondary Counselor Eric Crinklaw and Secondary Principal Christine Tripp shared with the board various options our students have to receive class credits in preparation for graduation. Our student enrollment numbers are lower than anticipated in the different grades because several students haven’t earned enough credits to remain on track for their grade level. Several seniors don’t have enough credits to graduate in June.
  C. Middle School Library - Meet to Check-in with 25 High School Students Approximate Time 12:10-12:40 pm - Based on the discussions from both middle school and high school lunches, below is a summary of the key points that reflect the perspectives and an overview of specific issues and suggestions raised by students. High School students had a discussion with board directors over lunch on the four topics listed below:
Attendance – What are you noticing about student attendance?
Attendance Trends: Notable absenteeism in morning classes, with as much as 50% absent.
Absentee Patterns: Some students frequently miss class; others show up but are unengaged.
Potential Solutions:
Consider incentives for perfect attendance, such as field trips, candy bar, or free time.
Maintain the late start on Wednesdays.
Allow students to Zoom into class when unable to attend in person.
Daily task points make it hard to catch up (once you have fallen behind). Fear of failure because there isn’t flexibility to fail a class. You need 24 credits to graduate and you only have the opportunity to take 24 credits, meaning you have to pass every class you take
Extra-curricular activities – What do you wish we had?
Desired Activities:
More elective options, including weight lifting, and lacrosse.
Additional CTE classes Drama, Woodshop, Hunting, Fishing, and Automotive
Interest in organizations like FFA, DECA, and Key Club.
Requests for additional sports and language classes.
Academic Challenges:
Concerns about credit requirements and limited opportunities for extra credits.
IReady Math – Is the curriculum engaging to you?
Curriculum Feedback:
Mixed opinions on the engagement level of IReady Math.
Some students appreciate having alternative options for math.
Some felt I-Ready Math is OK, and some say it is an upgrade.
Math is hard. Need to have study hall available Mon-Thurs with transportation options
Anything else? What do you think we need to know? Additional Concerns and Suggestions:
Cell Phone Policy: Consensus on removing cell phones from classrooms.
Academic Offerings:
Requests for more online classes, including AP classes.
Arts Program: Desire for expanded art and drama offerings.
Food Quality: Mixed feedback on school meals, with specific concerns about breakfast and soups. Improve the quality, quantity, and variety of school meals, including options for second servings and salad dressing choices. Would like to have vending machine options. Allow students to go off-campus for lunch.
Bring back our security officer.
Address concerns about bullying.
Enhance school events such as dances with new themes.
  D. Solar Grant Update - Marylee Chamberlain and Mary Woleb – No update was presented. The agenda item will be moved to the March 25th regular board meeting.
  E. Enrollment Forecast for 2024-2025 School Year for Budget Purposes - Deputy Superintendent of Finance, Human Resources, and Operations Dave Cram presented enrollment projections for the 2024-2025 SY. The projection is 460 FTE which is a reduction of 30 students from this year. This will be an additional $330,000 deficit to our budget next year. The district can’t count students enrolled in the Skills Center or Running Start programs for the hours enrolled in these programs. It’s possible we can start a transitional Kindergarten program in the fall to increase enrollment.
  President Deyo asked Dave Cram to contact Darrington School District to ask how they significantly increased their enrollment with the implementation of their pre-K program.
  Dave Cram explained the state recently adopted the budget which helps our finances in some respects. With our experienced staff, we’ll have received 4% in regionalization funds in the past. We’ll receive 2% this year which is approximately $40,000 to $50,000. The reduction will be 1% in 2025-26 SY and another 1% in 2026-2027 instead of the 2% reduction happening all next year. We have 4 to 5 students funded through Safety Net but the district is obligated to pay $35,000 per student. IPD is 3.7% next year. MSOC funding increased a little this year giving us approximately $10,000 with a larger increase in the 2024-25 SY. The state-approved budget funding increases for SPED, Regionalization, MSOC, and the prototypical model funds helping us get closer to alignment with our budget. Our district supported all these HBs.
  Impact Aid funds should arrive by the end of March pending the finalization of the federal budget.
  F. Interlocal Agreement First Peoples’ Language, Culture, and Oral Tribal Traditions Program ILA Agreement – Below are questions and concerns the board directors expressed regarding the ILA Agreement for the First Peoples’ Language, Culture, and Oral Tribal Traditions Program:
Certification Requirements: Do Swinomish certificated teachers need to complete the same education, training, and testing as our district-certificated teachers?
Meeting Standards: Will Swinomish certificated teachers need to meet the same standards as our state certificated teachers?
Annual Training: Do Swinomish certificated teachers complete the same annual training as our district staff, including Safe Schools training?
ILA for ESAs: If we don’t have an ILA for ESAs, we need to establish one.
Expenses and Benefits: What are the expenses and benefits to the district regarding this program?
Field Trip Expenses: Who covers the expenses of field trips, including transportation, drivers, substitutes, and meals?
Review of ILAs: We would like to see a list of school districts that have signed similar ILAs and review the wording of their agreements.
Union Input: What input has been received from union members about this ILA?
Annual Review: Like the other ILA, we propose reviewing and renewing this ILA annually.
Staff Evaluation: Who will be responsible for evaluating the staff involved in this program?
Liability Insurance: What provisions are in place for liability insurance?
Graduation Requirements and College Credits: Do class credits count toward graduation requirements? How are these credits acknowledged by colleges?
Deadline for Finalizing Agreement: What is the deadline for finalizing the agreement to create the master class schedule for the 2024-2025 school year?
  Superintendent Nelson will follow up to address the board’s questions and request to address these concerns.
G. Interlocal Agreement with Swinomish - Ethno Botanical Garden - Below are questions and concerns the board directors expressed regarding the Ethno Botanical Garden ILA:
Cost and Expenses Responsibility: We need clarification on who will be responsible for various costs and expenses related to the Ethno Botanical Garden, including water, power, security, oversight, etc.
Security Concerns: There are concerns about security in the area, including lighting and the installation of cameras.
Annual Review and Renewal: They propose having an annual review of the ILA agreement and renewing it annually to avoid open-ended commitments.
Oversight: The district cannot relinquish complete oversight of the property.
Risk Management and Legal Review: Has our Risk Management team reviewed and approved the ILA? Additionally, has our attorney reviewed and approved it?
Court System: There are concerns about the legality of issues being resolved in the Swinomish Court system, and we need to address the correct court system in the ILA.
Collaboration with Staff: We need to involve our teachers, especially science teachers, grounds, and facilities staff in the collaboration process.
Outdoor Classroom: Language regarding establishing an outdoor classroom should be added to the ILA.
Maintenance Plan: What is the process if the garden isn’t maintained? We need a clear plan in place.
  Superintendent Nelson will follow up to address the board’s questions and request to address these concerns in the ILA.
  4. Policy Review:
A. First Reading – The following policies will be added under the second reading for adoption at the March 25 regular board meeting. The board would like Policy 1450 to be revised reducing the amount of consecutive meeting absences from 4 to 3 for the March 25 regular board meeting.
Policy 1733 - Board Director Compensation
Policy 2005 - School Improvement Plans
Policy 2240 - Summer School
Policy 2413 - Equivalency Credit Opportunities
Policy 2415 - Performance-Based Pathway for High School Graduation
Policy 2415P - Procedure Performance-Based Pathway for High School Graduation
Policy 5005 - Employment and Volunteers: Disclosures, Certification Requirements, Assurances and Approval
Policy 5251 - Conflicts of Interest
Policy 5252 - Staff Participation in Political Activities
Policy 5253 - Maintaining Professional Staff/Student Boundaries
Policy 5253F1 - FORM Maintaining Professional Staff/Student Boundaries
Policy 5253P - Procedure Maintaining Professional Staff/Student Boundaries
Policy 5260 - Personnel Records
Policy 5260P - Procedure Personnel Records
Policy 5270 - Resolution of Staff Complaints
Policy 5270P - Procedure Resolution of Staff Complaints
Policy 5271 - Reporting Improper Governmental Action (Whistleblower Protection)
Policy 5271P - Procedure Reporting Improper Governmental Action (Whistleblower Protection)
Policy 5281 - Disciplinary Action and Discharge
Policy 5315 - Garnishment and Personal Credit Problems
Policy 5315P - Procedure Garnishment and Personal Credit Problems
B. Second Reading - No policies under second reading.
6. Closing Items:
A. Announcements – President Deyo asked who is following up to talk with families when they choose to transfer their student(s) out of our district to find out why. We have 55 to 60 kids that CTR out of our district. Why is this happening? Should the board directors call families? Superintendent Nelson will follow up on this request.
B. Future Meetings Listed Below:
March 11, 2024 - Special Meeting Study Session @ 1:00 pm
March 19, 2024 – Joint meeting with the Swinomish Tribal Senate at 1:00 pm.
March 25, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
  April 8, 2024 - Special Meeting Study Session @ 1:00 pm
April 22, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
  May 13, 2024 - Special Meeting Study Session @ 1:00 pm
May 28, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
  June 10, 2024 - Special Meeting Study Session @ 1:00 pm
June 24, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
  C.  Adjourn: Director Agen moved to adjourn the meeting at 2:38 p.m.
      ____________________________     __________________________________________
Susie Deyo, President                         Will Makoyiisaaminaa Nelson, Ed.D., Superintendent
 