La Conner School Board of Directors - IN PERSON ONLY
Minutes of Special Meeting Study Session in the
Middle School Library, 404 N 6th Street, La Conner
on Monday, October 7, 2024 at 11:00 AM
  1. Opening Items:
A. Call to Order – President Deyo called the meeting to order at 11:13 am in the Middle School Library. In Person Only.
B. Flag Salute - Those present joined in the Pledge of Allegiance.
C. Roll Call - Board Directors John Agen, Jeremy Wilbur, and President Susie Deyo were present. Student Representative Emmalin Goodman was present and Board Director Kim Pedroza was present at 11:30. Student Representative Kellie Cayou-Lockrem was present at noon. Director Quintasket was absent. Executive Assistant Cherri Kahns, Director of Teaching and Learning Beth Clothier, and  Interim Superintendent David Cram were present.
D. Approval of Agenda - Director Agen moved, and Director Wilbur seconded to approve the agenda as presented. Motion carried 3-0.
  2. Discussion Items:
A. Middle School Library - Meet to check with 25 Middle School Students and Provide Lunch - Approximate Time 11:10-11:40 am - The board directors provided pizza and met with the following middle school students: Ella J - 6th, Faith J - 8th, Ryan R - 8th, Rory B - 7th, Nolan E- 7th, Madilynn L - 7th, Sophia E - 8th, Mia D - 8th, Isla J - 8th, Kason W - 8th, Josiah H - 7th, Kayleb B- 7th, Jairus Z - 7th, Teddy J - 6th, Nellie M - 6th, Amelia S - 8th, Spencer N - 6th, Georgia B- 6th, Brennan H - 6th, Cecelia K - 7th, Emmitt A - 7th, Clyde O - 6th, Grace S - 7th, and Josie C -6th.
  B. Board Directors and Staff Debrief - Based on the discussion from the middle school lunch, below is a summary of the key points that reflect the perspectives and an overview of specific issues and suggestions raised by students. Middle School students had a discussion with board directors over lunch on the three topics listed below.
  Why do you think showing up to school on time is important for your learning and success? What are some creative ways we can encourage each other to improve our attendance and make it easier to be present and on time?
Why showing up on time is important:
It helps build a good pattern for future life and employment.
Being on time allows students to get the full lesson, reducing stress and avoiding missed content.
Even if assignments are available online, missing class means missing key instructions and lesson details.
Punctuality trains students for future responsibilities.
Challenges to being on time:
Lack of transportation or missing the bus causes lateness or absences.
Some students have no ride available to get to school.
The early start time is difficult; students suggest starting at 8:30 AM.
Creative ideas to encourage attendance:
Offer rewards like donuts, ice cream, or recognition for perfect attendance and punctuality.
Students like the late start on Wednesdays and note that no one is tardy on that day.
Arriving early helps students catch up on assignments or tasks.
  What aspects of our classroom instruction do you feel are working well and helping you learn effectively? Conversely, what suggestions do you have for improvements or changes that could enhance your learning experience?
What's working well:
Enjoyment of classes like Science, Math, Aviation, PE, and the Music program.
The math teacher is helpful, explains concepts well, goes slowly, and gives breaks to absorb information.
Positive experiences with Mastery-Based Learning (MBL) and teachers providing help when students don't understand.
Students are more interactive at lunch without their cell phones and don't find it a big deal to not have phones at school.
Math books that allow students to check answers.
ELA and Math teacher allow restroom breaks.
Suggestions for improvement:
Some classes have too much talking, leaving little time to complete assignments.
Some teachers are repetitive or assign a lot of work with minimal instruction or purpose.
Some classes started at a level too advanced for many students, making it hard to follow and pass.
Some teacher provides little help, and the entry test is difficult.
Study hall assistance is only available for 8th graders, leaving 7th graders without support.
Issues with lunch quality.
Some students dislike Kami but like using Canvas.
Prefer having written-out lesson plans rather than just seeing them on the board.
Some classes don't allow catch-up worksheets.
Struggle with some story assignments without help from the teacher.
  What would you like the board to know?"
Lunch quality and quantity need improvement.
Many students dislike the rigid lunch schedule.
Students would like to have a Power Hour
    C. Middle School Library - Meet to check with 25 High School Students Approximate Time 12:10-12:40 pm - The board directors provided pizza and met with the following high school students: Josie A -12th, Rosie A- 10th, CJ E - 12th, Lorena E- 11th, Lydia G -12th, Penelope G - 12th, Finley H - 9th, Xavier K- 9th, Anahi P - 11th, Olie P - 11th, Cathleen R - 12th, Eyowyn S -12th, Kialah S -12th. Noelle S -10th, Iris T- 10th, Izzy V-11th, Evan M-9th, Reese B-9th, Annika K -9th, Jackson A - 9th, Jarret H -12th, Kendal L -12th, Jayden C -12th, Abi P - 9th, Norberto L- 11th, Student Representatives Kellie C and Emmalin G.
  The board asked for student voices on the following topics:
1. Why do you think showing up to school on time is important for your learning and success? What are some creative ways we can encourage each other to improve our attendance and make it easier to be present and on time?
2. What aspects of our classroom instruction do you feel are working well and helping you learn effectively? Conversely, what suggestions do you have for improvements or changes that could enhance your learning experience?
3. Please share, what would you like the board to know.
  B. Board Directors and Staff Debrief - Based on the discussion from the high school lunch, below is a summary of the key points that reflect the perspectives and an overview of specific issues and suggestions raised by students. High School students had a discussion with board directors over lunch on the three topics listed above.
  1. Why do you think showing up to school on time is important for your learning and success? What are some creative ways we can encourage each other to improve our attendance and make it easier to be present and on time?
Why showing up to school on time is important:
Prevents missing key content and instructions.
Avoids the need to catch up on missed materials.
Helps establish a good routine for life.
Builds better time management and self-scheduling skills.
Being on time allows students to see friends and favorite teachers.
Encourages personal motivation to attend school.
Challenges faced:
Waking up on time and missing the bus.
Lack of motivation or support from parents.
Difficulties with online platforms like Canvas for assignments.
The same people come late all the time, which may indicate recurring issues.
Creative ideas to improve attendance and timeliness:
After-school study hall or morning support for those struggling.
Establishing better personal routines and schedules.
Implement a grace period before marking students tardy or absent (e.g., a minute for Yondr pouch use, or 5 minutes).
Encouraging more parent or student-driven efforts to arrive on time.
Advisors engage with students more personally to encourage attendance.
  2.  What aspects of our classroom instruction do you feel are working well and helping you learn effectively? Conversely, what suggestions do you have for improvements or changes that could enhance your learning experience?
What’s working well:
Smaller class sizes.
Hands-on learning is preferred by many.
Less lecturing with more time to complete assignments.
No cell phones, leading to more dialogue and fewer distractions.
Classes are easy to follow, leading to good grades.
Math games are engaging.
Study halls provided by some teachers are helpful.
No cell phones have reduced distractions.
Suggestions for improvements:
More elective options, such as automotive, construction, ceramics, art, music, and 3D art.
Offering 7 periods instead of 6 to provide more class variety and elective choices.
More teachers should provide study halls, especially on Wednesdays.
More opportunities for hands-on learning across all subjects.
Increased availability of extra credit opportunities.
A weekday dedicated to study hall for teacher assistance.
More Career and Technical Education (CTE) courses.
Less arrogance and more time for students to work in class with teacher support.
Smaller class sizes are a priority for sophomores.
  What would you like the board to know?
Instruction and learning:
More Universal Design for Learning (UDL) methods in instruction, beyond just writing on the board.
Increased WIN (What I Need) time for personalized support.
Earlier and more frequent use of Mastery-Based Learning (MBL) in classrooms.
Food and lunch concerns:
Not enough food is served during meals.
Too much lunch waste; a compost bin and a "Give Back Food" table are suggested.
Limited options for vegetarians.
Positive feedback on having a salad bar and fresh strawberries.
Students would like permission to use cell phones during lunch and to leave campus for lunch.
Environmental concerns:
Implementing a compost system to reduce waste.
  E. Legislative Priorities – President Deyo shared the following legislative priorities:
Administrators for Small Schools - WSSDA shall initiate and/or support legislation that would assure a minimum level of funding for key functions required in all school districts, including administration, counseling, student support, operation of facilities, and other necessary functions. WSSDA should work to ensure all districts, regardless of their size, can provide an equitable education for their students.
Amply Funded Staffing Levels - WSSDA shall initiate and/or support legislation that provides for the full, ample, sustainable, and equitable (based upon student need) funding of salaries, benefits, and pension programs for minimum, appropriate staff levels for the following necessary functions for all districts:
Teaching and learning staff: teachers, teaching assistants, instructional coaches, librarians, English Learner/Multilingual Learner (MLL) instruction, occupational therapy/physical therapy staff, and special education support staff.
Building administration and support staff: principals, assistant principals, deans, counselors, credit recovery/academic support staff, McKinney/Vento liaisons, psychologists, nurses, front office and department support staff, custodians, safety and security staff, social workers, and family engagement coordinators.
Central administration and operational support staff: superintendent, teaching and learning director, finance director, equity director, operations director, teachers on special assignment (TOSAs), assessment and data support, human resources, payroll and benefits staff, IT and technology, facilities/maintenance/grounds, warehouse/laborer/mechanics, bus drivers, nutrition and food service staff.
Substitute staff is needed to support student learning and continue daily operations.
Legislation should:
Create and maintain a process for a statewide, bi-annual review of, and recommendations regarding, statewide staffing salaries/benefits/pension allocations, regionalization needs, and cost of living adjustments (IDP/COLA).
Amply, fully, and sustainably fund the School Employee Benefits Board (SEBB) benefits for eligible school district employees, including both full- and part-time, ensuring school districts do not incur costs for employees who decline benefits.
Amply, fully, and sustainably fund the cost of substitute staff needed to fulfill staff leave obligations of the Paid Family and Medical Leave Act, increasing the number of days and the daily rate with a regionalization factor applied, to meet the actual costs incurred by districts.
Provide the needed flexibility for staff assignment decisions made by district administration, to ensure efficient and effective placements are based on qualifications and fit the individual school needs as codified in RCW 28A.150.230.
Equitable Funding for Regionalization and Staff Mix - WSSDA shall initiate and/or support legislation that improves the regionalization funding model and the staff-mix/experience factor funding model consistent with the 2022 recommendations from the K-12 Basic Education Compensation Advisory Committee (also known as the Rebase Committee).
Federal Impact Aid Program - WSSDA will advocate for continued strong funding and timely appropriations for all line items of the Federal Impact Aid Program, including Basic Support and Federal Properties, to ensure all federally connected school districts can provide quality education to their students.
Fiscal Notes and Unfunded Mandates - WSSDA shall initiate and/or support requiring all legislation mandating K-12 programs or services to provide full funding for all costs including incidental, administrative, and non-employee, and other related costs of the programs or services.
WSSDA supports requiring that the legislature only progress K-12 legislation out of committee for which an estimated fiscal impact has been determined, including an estimate of the representative local cost of compliance (fiscal notes), from representative districts around the state, for any proposed state laws or administrative rules, that would impact educational programs or services.
WSSDA supports requiring K-12 related legislation to have a null and void clause, eliminating the mandates, if state funding is not appropriated to implement the legislation, in accordance with the school district fiscal note.
WSSDA shall advocate for and/or pursue litigation against the state when mandates are not fully funded.
Full Funding of Basic Education - WSSDA shall initiate and/or support legislation that fully, amply, and sustainably funds and implements all aspects of the Washington Program of Basic Education including all graduation requirements as established in RCW 28A.150.200. Materials, supplies, and operating costs shall be included in the funding of basic education.
NEW Funding Safe, Healthy, Contemporary School Buildings - WSSDA shall initiate and/or support legislation that establishes an ongoing, sustainable, and reliable source and system to amply fund safe, healthy, and contemporary school buildings. To achieve this level of funding the legislature should consider:
Reimbursement for the sales tax receipts and TERO tax on native reservations for all school construction projects.
Development of a new school construction funding formula that accounts for the total project cost including but not limited to:
property acquisition, design, and engineering fees, permitting, life cycle cost analysis, and building commissioning; uses the national average for the square footage required for modern schools and the true market cost per square foot to construct, and renew schools that will remain safe, healthy, and support high-quality teaching and learning.
Optimizing the life-cycle cost of the facility.
Creating a funding formula that allows for construction for all school districts based upon need.
Fund construction costs resulting from new legislation and changes in class size or graduation requirements at an enhanced level to enable districts to quickly meet the new requirements.
Review and reduce regulations regarding construction and siting of school facilities that do not contribute to student learning; health and safety; and the affordability of siting, constructing, and maintaining school facilities.
Remove the 30-year moratorium on School Construction funds for a building that was modernized and received prior SCAP funding if the need is to accommodate growth and add more space for unhoused students.
Supports for the Washington Urgent Repair Grant Program, the Energy (Efficiency)
Operational Savings - Project Grants, and other capital budget funding programs that meet emerging or underfunded maintenance, repair, and construction needs at school buildings. Allowing school districts to build a school outside of a county’s Urban Growth Area (UGA) under the state’s Growth Management Act (GMA). Legislation must be applicable to all districts in the state that can demonstrate the required circumstances, and not be arbitrarily limited to only select counties or school districts.
Incentivizing cooperative partnerships use of facilities with the local community, such as early learning providers, social service providers, community and technical colleges, and public baccalaureate institutions.
Revisions in the current calculation of “instructional space” so school districts are not penalized by the loss of any state construction funding due to the facilities partnership.
Any unclaimed School Construction Assistance Program (SCAP) funding at the end of the fiscal year shall not be reallocated.
Providing flexibility for school districts that have a voter-approved capital levy to issue non-voted bonds for the purpose of constructing new school buildings.
NEW MSOC Funding WSSDA shall initiate and/or support legislation and appropriations that recognize that school districts; abilities to maintain and enhance quality educational opportunities for all students are strengthened by full, ample, and sustainable funding for materials, supplies, and operating costs (MSOC).
WSSDA supports enhanced MSOC funding. These enhancements may come via regular increases recognizing inflationary costs, with a required review by OSPI every four years of actual costs, as submitted by school districts or through the state becoming the responsible payee for operating costs such as, but not limited to, utility and insurance costs. Additionally,
WSSDA supports a sales tax break for MSOC costs of school districts.
Support for Special Education Programs 9 - WSSDA shall initiate and/or support legislation that requires full, ample, and sustainable funding for special education programs and services. Such programs and services should maximize assistance to children rather than to their various categorizations and assessments. Any state funding formula shall:
Recognize that costs will vary according to the needs of every child and, therefore, for every district, based upon the Individual Education Plan (IEP) of each student.
Provide adequate funding for all of the required services for eligible students without imposing an artificial cap.
Recognize that any funding formula based upon the assumption that every district has the same budget percentage costs for special education is inherently flawed and will not work.
Require and fund additional training in Special Education inclusionary practices in the General Education classroom.
Remove the penalties or withholding of funds for mistakes in the application process.
Transportation Funding 10 - WSSDA shall initiate and/or support legislation to modify the Student Transportation Allocation formula. Legislation should provide sufficient transportation resources to create equity in student access to basic education, covering all costs related to student transportation. The Student Transportation Allocation formula should:
Provide for the additional transportation costs incurred to mitigate impacts arising from high need, such as homelessness, foster care, out-of-district special education program placement, and other similar student circumstances;
Increase and maintain public understanding of the formula, through transparency and clarity;
Support efficient implementation and administration of transportation routes;
  F. Strategic Plan (Engage) – The current engagement section of our Strategic Plan will be revised to include all who can succeed with higher expectations. The standards assignment will start in June 2025 and finish in June 2026. The suggestion was made to consider board goals with revisions. President Deyo will prepare a draft for admin and board directors to review.
  3. Action Items:
A. Accounts Payable and Payroll - Director Agen moved, seconded by Director Wilbur, to approve accounts payable and payroll as submitted. Motion carried 3-0.
B. Personnel Actions - Director Agen moved, seconded by Director Wilbur, to approve personal action items dated October 7 as submitted. Motion carried 3-0.
  4. Policy Review:
A. First Reading - Policies and Procedures 2410, 3205, 3206, 4130, 5011, 5012, 6220, 6700, 6701, and 6702 will be added under the second reading for adoption at the October 28 regular board meeting.
  5. Closing Items:
A. Announcements – Legislative Day on the Hill is scheduled for January 11 and 12, 2025.
B. Future Meetings
October 16, 2024 – Lunch Meeting with Swinomish Tribal Senators around noon
October 28, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
  November 18, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
November 20-23, 2024 - WSSDA Conference
  December 16, 2024 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
  January 13, 2025 - Study Session 
January 27, 2025 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
  February 10, 2025 - Study Session 
February 24, 2025 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
  March 10, 2025 - Special Meeting Study Session - Meet with secondary students to strengthen student voice at 11:00 am
March 24, 2025 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
  April 14, 2025 - Study Session 
April 28, 2025 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
  May 12, 2025 - Study Session 
May 19, 2025 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
  June 9, 2025 - Study Session 
June 23, 2025 - Regular Board Meeting @ 5:00 pm 
  C. Adjourn - Director Agen moved to adjourn the meeting at 1:20 pm. 
      ____________________________     __________________________________________
Susie Deyo, President                             David Cram, Interim Superintendent
 