Regular Board Meeting and Board Reorganization at 5:30 PM (Monday, December 18, 2023)
PUBLIC MEETING OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Meeting Location: Wapato School District Office Boardroom, 212 West 3rd St, Wapato, WA 98951
1. Opening Item
Call to Order: Board President called the meeting to order at 5:30pm.
Pledge of Allegiance
Verification of Quorum: All members present: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado,
Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
Agenda: Approval of the agenda as presented.
Motion by Lorenzo Alvarado, second by Sarah Divina.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
Minutes: Approval of the November 27, 2023 Regular Meeting minutes as presented.
Motion by Lorenzo Alvarado, second by Sarah Divina.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
2. Public Comments
None
3. OATH OF OFFICE
Superintendent Garza administered the oath of office simultaneously to Javier Vela, Lorenzo
Alvarado, and John Francisco.
3.01 Elected Director, District 3 - 4year term: Javier Vela
3.02 Re-Elected Director, District 4 - 4year term: Lorenzo Alvarado
3.03 Re-Elected Director, District 5 - 4year term: John Francisco
4. BOARD REORGANIZATION
Election of President: President John Francisco called for nominations for President 1-year
term. Lorenzo Alvarado nominated John Francisco and no other nominations were made.
Roll call vote for election of President: Approval of John Francisco to serve 1-year term
(December 2023-2024) as Board President.
Motion by Lorenzo Alvarado, second by John Francisco.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
Roll call vote was not needed as the were no other nominations and the Board unanimously
elected Mr. Francisco to the position.
Election of Vice President: Board President John Francisco called for nominations for Vice
President 1-year term. Lorenzo Alvarado nominated Sarah Divina and no other nominations
were made.
Roll call vote for election of Vice President: Approval of Sarah Divina to serve 1-year term
(December 2023-2024) as Board Vice President.
Motion by Lorenzo Alvarado, second by Sarah Divina.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
Roll call vote was not needed as the were no other nominations and the Board unanimously
elected Mrs. Divina to the position.

Disciplinary Appeals Counsel - 1 Seat: John Francisco called for nominations to serve on
Disciplinary Appeals Council, 3-year term. Javier Vela volunteered to fill position. No other
nominations were made. Javier Vela will serve on the Disciplinary Appeals Counsel, 2024-20252026.
POSTPONED - Legislative Representative Term: January-June 2024: The board reviewed and
discussed the duties of the position. Javier Vela asked to postponed the appointment of
Legislative Representative for further review and thus was the consensus to postpone the
appointment to a future meeting.
Board Appointments: Approval of the Board Appointments as presented:
Recording Secretary - Teresa Rangel
Clerk of the Board - Ezequiel Garza
Authorized Representative - Ezequiel Garza
District Auditor - Sylvia Bazan
Official Newspaper - Yakima Herald Republic
Official Bank - Key Bank
Legal Firm - Stevens, Clay, Manix, P.S.
Motion by Lorenzo Alvarado, second by Sarah Divina.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
2023-2024 Resolution No. 02 Board Compensation: Approval of Resolution No. 2 Board
Compensation as presented. Motion by Lorenzo Alvarado, second by Sarah Divina. Sarah
withdrew the second motion and no vote was taken.
Motion by Lorenzo Alvarado, second NONE. Final Resolution: Motion dies due to lack of second
motion.
5. Reports
Superintendent's Report - Kelly Garza, Superintendent, reported:
• The District did not receive the Gates Foundation Grant. As previously reported, the District
applied for and hosted a tour and presentation at Wapato High School to the Gates
Foundation and UW. The purpose of the visit was to present information of the need for the
grant funding to continue educational programs at Wapato High School.
• Kevin Hill, Executive Director, reported the sewage system at Camas/Satus is not working.
He has contacted a septic service to clean out tank and cleanup overflow due to pumps not
working properly. The district has received a grant to replace the pump. The delivery of the
new has been delayed. The temporary repair has failed and pumps because they cannot
keep up the demand. Due to the grant requirements, the pumps must be certified by State
Officials prior to being installed, which will delay the install of new pumps longer.
• Congratulated the Transportation Department for passing the State Vehicle Inspection. The
District has continued this outstanding success for several years now.
• Sports Update: Wapato High School Basketball team was victorious against Toppenish.
Wapato Middle School Wrestling wrapped up the season with a 1st place trophy. Middle
School Winter I sports are wrapping up and Winter II season will begin after the Winter
Break.
• He attended the YV-Tech Superintendent’s Meeting this week. The agenda was focused on
enrollment at YV-Tech. There are currently 36 students attending YV-Tech programs. He

reported Wapato High School Student, Margarita Gonzalez, received YV-Tech Honors
Society recognition.
• The District’s annual Dinner and a Book event took place last week with a great turn out.
They served a record breaking 784 meals to families and all who attended received a book
and took a picture with Santa. Mr. Garza thanked Marilyn Bergevin, Mike Balmelli, and Ken
Olden (Santa) for all their work to organize and make this another successful event.
• Congratulations the Board of Directors for attending the many activities taking place
throughout the District this month. This aligns with the Board goal to be more visible.
• Last week, the District held a Bond Facts and Information Community Forum to provide
more information about the upcoming Bond and its plans to replace the current
Camas/Satus Elementaries and PACE High School. He noted that KIMA News attended the
meeting. Mr. Garza plans to have more community meetings to continue to disburse
information to the community. John Francisco asked about the community survey for
feedback regarding replacing the schools. Mr. Garza informed the results of the survey
were 92% of those that participated in the survey are in favor of replacing the schools and
safety and security is the main priority. The Board discussed voter validation numbers. Mike
Balmelli commented the District must receive 40% of the last recorded turn out to be
validated. He noted the last election had a record low turnout of voters.
• Financial Report: Sylvia Bazan, Director of Fiscal Services, presented the 2022-2023 End of
Fiscal Year Financial Report. She explained in detail the expenditure and revenues in each
fund category: General, ASB, Debt Service, Capital Projects, Transportation Vehicle, and
Private Purpose. She explained the purpose of each fund, and allocations for the year. Mrs.
Bazan presented ESSER funding update of allocation, funding balance and expiration
timeline. The Board engaged in discussion regarding the ASB Fund summary and balance.
Yakama Tribal Council Update: Elese Washines, Tribal Council Liaison, reported the District had
a great Tribal Consultation on December 7th and congratulated the Board on the Board of
Distinction achievement. She said Tribal Council has requested to use the Districts poster of
equity data as an example with other districts and tribal consultation. She talked about impact
aid and the importance of creating a better understanding of the impact and need of that
funding. She reported the District’s Since Time Immemorial roadmap that was created by
Shannon Torres that shows all areas of integrating the curriculum in Social Studies and is
another area that WSD is ahead of other districts.
Parent Square Training: Maria Batarao, Executive Director of Technology and Assessment,
reported the District is moving to a centralized communication platform. She explained Parent
Square is an app-based program with 2-way communication for staff and students. The
program was piloted with Online students’ last year. Allyson Vinson, Online Program
Coordinator explained how she uses Parent Square to communicate with her online learning
students.
Ms. Batarao explained the app will be used for emergency mailing notices such as school
closure and delay. This is also a good tool for real time communication between teachers and
students. The app will replace the many currently in place such as Remind, School Messenger,
Dojo, and Google Classroom. It will be a centralized communication system. Ms. Batarao
demonstrated on the app the main features and provided examples of how it works.

6. Consent Action
Consent action approval of items 6.01-6.08 as presented:
6.01 General Fund Warrant No. 163228 through No. 136244 totaling $121,849.29
6.02 Private Purpose Fund Warrant No. 1299 in the amount of $3,008.34
6.03 Personnel Recommendations
6.04 ASB Fund Warrant No. 11778 through No. 11782 totaling $6,097.44.
6.05 2023-2024 Resolution No. 03 Delegation of Authority December 2023 Payroll and End of
Month Financials
6.06 WSD/WEA additional TA Recommendation
6.07 Travel Request - WHS Robotics and Engineering to Clackamas Academy of Industrial
Science, Feb 29-Mar 2, 2024 Clackamas OR
6.08 2023-2024 Resolution No. 4 Authorized Signatories
Motion by Lorenzo Alvarado, second by Javier Vela.
Final Resolution: Motion Carries
Yea: John Francisco, Sarah Divina, Lorenzo Alvarado, Lori Garcia, Javier Vela
7. Information/Discussion
Information/Discussion: None
2nd Reading Revised Policy No 2145 - Suicide Prevention: This 2nd reading is at the request of
the board to further discuss student involvement, peer relationships and counseling to
encourage student to student reporting in this policy. Tavis Peterson, Assistant Superintendent
explained this policy focuses social emotional health. He explained the Districts current process
to help identify when a student may need help. The District has a process for elementary and
secondary students and Wapato High School has a prevention club that is student led. David
Blakney, High School Principal explained how technology monitors student conversations via
district email that notifies an administrator of specific triggering words to intervene and help a
student in need of emotional issues. The District is planning suicide prevention training for in
January for Wapato Middle School. The board asked for the HS Prevention Club to present at a
future board meeting regarding their club activities. The Board reviewed and discussed the
revised policy and after this 2nd reading is ready to move forward and take action of the revised
policy as presented.
1st Reading New Policy No. 5399 Attendance Expectations and Job Abandonment: Tony
Howard, Executive Director of Human Resources explained the purpose of this policy is to
change the culture of the use of attendance and to have a process for staff attendance. He
informed this is not a WSSDA model policy. This policy is specific for Wapato School District.
The Board reviewed and discussed the revised policy.
December Enrollment Report: The Board reviewed and discussed the enrollment report as
presented.
8. Closing/Announcements
John Francisco, Board President, welcomed back Javier Vela to the Board of Directors. Mr. Vela
has previously served as a Board member in past years.
9. Adjourn

The Board completed its order of business as scheduled on the agenda and with no further
business to consider, Board President John Francisco declared the meeting adjourned at
7:52pm.
Recording Secretary

President of the Board

