  Monday, September 9, 2024
Board Workshop
Kalama School District No. 402
548 China Garden Road, Annex room 206, 12:00 p.m.
Executive session immediately following regular agenda
  1. Call to Order
President Eader called the meeting to order at 12:00pm followed by the flag salute
  2. Roll Call and Declaration of Quorum
Wesley Eader
Dustin Moon
Katie Perkins
Jeremy Kushner
Katie Perkins
  Quorum declared
  3. Board of Education
A. Social Media Use
Dr. Benjamin shared WSSDA August 2024 Policy & Legal News publication. Attention was drawn to article relating to social media use.
  4. Reports
A. Enrollment vs. Projected
Director of Business Services James Capen shared current enrollment numbers.
  B. Policy Manual Audit (1000s)
Dr. Benjamin shared we had an outside audit done on our 1000s series policies. Overall there were no policies that require immediate attention. The audit will move to the 2000s series. 
  C. Superintendent Update
Dr. Benjamin shared:
Friday night the gate was $3,461.00 for our home football game, our highest yet.
  5. Discussion
A. Policy Updates (First Reading)
Policy 2410 Graduation Requirements
Dr. Benjamin reviewed updates for the policy necessary for moving from a 7 period to a 6 period day. 
Board members are asked to review the updates and bring any questions to the agenda review meetings with Dr. Benjamin next week.
  B. Procedure Updates
Procedure 1420P - Proposed Agenda and Consent Agenda
Procedure 2150P -  Students on Governing Boards
Procedure 1400P - Meeting Conduct, Order of Business and Quorum
Dr. Benjamin reviewed the above procedures. No action was taken.
  C. WSSDA Conference
Conference has been booked, working on hotels.
  D. WSSDA Boards of Distinction
 Boards of Distinction
Dr. Benjamin shared the opportunity of applying as a board of distinction in the future
Yes, the board is interested
  E. Superintendent Evaluation
Superintendent Evaluation
Dr. Benjamin shared an option of a superintendent evaluation model
  F. Superintendent Outside Work
Dr. Benjamin shared that he is working on Project Management Training with 2 districts in Texas. He would be away from the district for 2 days in June and would use vacation/personal time for the dates. Outside work is allowed per his contract. 
  G. Financial Reporting
James Capen asked the board what their expectations are for monthly reporting outside of required reporting (budget status, enrollment, cash flow/fund balance, . Responses:
Break down ASB funds (ticket sales, Pay to Play, concessions, etc.)
Chinook Shoppe (revenue and expenses)
Enrollment - include FTE/financial implication
  H. Site, Safety, and Security
Current district reporting we are working on
What would the board like to know as we work on these?
Student capacity for each facility
Camera blindspots
  I. Cell Project
Dr. Benjamin shared some site options for a possible cell tower installation.
  J. Instructional Materials Committee
Dr. Benjamin shared that the committee for instructional materials is beginning to form. Jennifer McCallum has offered to be the secretary for the committee. Director Harbell is also working on the committee. She is going to reach out to a community member about chairing the committee.
  K. Resolution 24-02 Committee
Dr. Benjamin asked if the board had recommendations for chairing the committee. 
The board will work on nominations.
  6. Adjourn
Meeting adjourned at 2:36pm


  MInutes approved September 23, 2024
 